{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \
\
The Project Gutenberg EBook of Adventures of Huckleberry Finn, Complete\
by Mark Twain (Samuel Clemens)\
\
This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with almost\
no restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use\
it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this\
eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net\
\
Title: Adventures of Huckleberry Finn, Complete\
\
Author: Mark Twain (Samuel Clemens)\
\
Release Date: August 20, 2006 [EBook #76]\
\
Last Updated: August 17, 2016]\
\
Language: English\
\
Character set encoding: UTF-8\
\
*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK HUCKLEBERRY FINN ***\
\
Produced by David Widger\
\
\
\
\
\
ADVENTURES\
\
OF\
\
HUCKLEBERRY FINN\
\
(Tom Sawyer\'92s Comrade)\
\
By Mark Twain\
\
Complete\
\
\
\
\
CONTENTS.\
\
CHAPTER I. Civilizing Huck.--Miss Watson.--Tom Sawyer Waits.\
\
CHAPTER II. The Boys Escape Jim.--Torn Sawyer\'92s Gang.--Deep-laid Plans.\
\
CHAPTER III. A Good Going-over.--Grace Triumphant.--\'93One of Tom Sawyers\'92s\
Lies\'94.\
\
CHAPTER IV. Huck and the Judge.--Superstition.\
\
CHAPTER V. Huck\'92s Father.--The Fond Parent.--Reform.\
\
CHAPTER VI. He Went for Judge Thatcher.--Huck Decided to Leave.--Political\
Economy.--Thrashing Around.\
\
CHAPTER VII. Laying for Him.--Locked in the Cabin.--Sinking the\
Body.--Resting.\
\
CHAPTER VIII. Sleeping in the Woods.--Raising the Dead.--Exploring the\
Island.--Finding Jim.--Jim\'92s Escape.--Signs.--Balum.\
\
CHAPTER IX. The Cave.--The Floating House.\
\
CHAPTER X. The Find.--Old Hank Bunker.--In Disguise.\
\
CHAPTER XI. Huck and the Woman.--The Search.--Prevarication.--Going to\
Goshen.\
\
CHAPTER XII. Slow Navigation.--Borrowing Things.--Boarding the Wreck.--The\
Plotters.--Hunting for the Boat.\
\
CHAPTER XIII. Escaping from the Wreck.--The Watchman.--Sinking.\
\
CHAPTER XIV. A General Good Time.--The Harem.--French.\
\
CHAPTER XV. Huck Loses the Raft.--In the Fog.--Huck Finds the Raft.--Trash.\
\
CHAPTER XVI. Expectation.--A White Lie.--Floating Currency.--Running by\
Cairo.--Swimming Ashore.\
\
CHAPTER XVII. An Evening Call.--The Farm in Arkansaw.--Interior\
Decorations.--Stephen Dowling Bots.--Poetical Effusions.\
\
CHAPTER XVIII. Col. Grangerford.--Aristocracy.--Feuds.--The\
Testament.--Recovering the Raft.--The Wood--pile.--Pork and Cabbage.\
\
CHAPTER XIX. Tying Up Day--times.--An Astronomical Theory.--Running a\
Temperance Revival.--The Duke of Bridgewater.--The Troubles of Royalty.\
\
CHAPTER XX. Huck Explains.--Laying Out a Campaign.--Working the\
Camp--meeting.--A Pirate at the Camp--meeting.--The Duke as a Printer.\
\
CHAPTER XXI. Sword Exercise.--Hamlet\'92s Soliloquy.--They Loafed Around\
Town.--A Lazy Town.--Old Boggs.--Dead.\
\
CHAPTER XXII. Sherburn.--Attending the Circus.--Intoxication in the\
Ring.--The Thrilling Tragedy.\
\
CHAPTER XXIII. Sold.--Royal Comparisons.--Jim Gets Home-sick.\
\
CHAPTER XXIV. Jim in Royal Robes.--They Take a Passenger.--Getting\
Information.--Family Grief.\
\
CHAPTER XXV. Is It Them?--Singing the \'93Doxologer.\'94--Awful Square--Funeral\
Orgies.--A Bad Investment .\
\
CHAPTER XXVI. A Pious King.--The King\'92s Clergy.--She Asked His\
Pardon.--Hiding in the Room.--Huck Takes the Money.\
\
CHAPTER XXVII. The Funeral.--Satisfying Curiosity.--Suspicious of\
Huck,--Quick Sales and Small.\
\
CHAPTER XXVIII. The Trip to England.--\'93The Brute!\'94--Mary Jane Decides to\
Leave.--Huck Parting with Mary Jane.--Mumps.--The Opposition Line.\
\
CHAPTER XXIX. Contested Relationship.--The King Explains the Loss.--A\
Question of Handwriting.--Digging up the Corpse.--Huck Escapes.\
\
CHAPTER XXX. The King Went for Him.--A Royal Row.--Powerful Mellow.\
\
CHAPTER XXXI. Ominous Plans.--News from Jim.--Old Recollections.--A Sheep\
Story.--Valuable Information.\
\
CHAPTER XXXII. Still and Sunday--like.--Mistaken Identity.--Up a Stump.--In\
a Dilemma.\
\
CHAPTER XXXIII. A Nigger Stealer.--Southern Hospitality.--A Pretty Long\
Blessing.--Tar and Feathers.\
\
CHAPTER XXXIV. The Hut by the Ash Hopper.--Outrageous.--Climbing the\
Lightning Rod.--Troubled with Witches.\
\
CHAPTER XXXV. Escaping Properly.--Dark Schemes.--Discrimination in\
Stealing.--A Deep Hole.\
\
CHAPTER XXXVI. The Lightning Rod.--His Level Best.--A Bequest to\
Posterity.--A High Figure.\
\
CHAPTER XXXVII. The Last Shirt.--Mooning Around.--Sailing Orders.--The\
Witch Pie.\
\
CHAPTER XXXVIII. The Coat of Arms.--A Skilled Superintendent.--Unpleasant\
Glory.--A Tearful Subject.\
\
CHAPTER XXXIX. Rats.--Lively Bed--fellows.--The Straw Dummy.\
\
CHAPTER XL. Fishing.--The Vigilance Committee.--A Lively Run.--Jim Advises\
a Doctor.\
\
CHAPTER XLI. The Doctor.--Uncle Silas.--Sister Hotchkiss.--Aunt Sally in\
Trouble.\
\
CHAPTER XLII. Tom Sawyer Wounded.--The Doctor\'92s Story.--Tom\
Confesses.--Aunt Polly Arrives.--Hand Out Them Letters \'a0\'a0\'a0.\
\
CHAPTER THE LAST. Out of Bondage.--Paying the Captive.--Yours Truly, Huck\
Finn.\
\
\
\
\
ILLUSTRATIONS.\
\
The Widows\
\
Moses and the \'93Bulrushers\'94\
\
Miss Watson\
\
Huck Stealing Away\
\
They Tip-toed Along\
\
Jim\
\
Tom Sawyer\'92s Band of Robbers\'a0\'a0\
\
Huck Creeps into his Window\
\
Miss Watson\'92s Lecture\
\
The Robbers Dispersed\
\
Rubbing the Lamp\
\
! ! ! !\
\
Judge Thatcher surprised\
\
Jim Listening\
\
\'93Pap\'94\
\
Huck and his Father\
\
Reforming the Drunkard\
\
Falling from Grace\
\
The Widows\
\
Moses and the \'93Bulrushers\'94\
\
Miss Watson\
\
Huck Stealing Away\
\
They Tip-toed Along\
\
Jim\
\
Tom Sawyer\'92s Band of Robbers\'a0\'a0\
\
Huck Creeps into his Window\
\
Miss Watson\'92s Lecture\
\
The Robbers Dispersed\
\
Rubbing the Lamp\
\
! ! ! !\
\
Judge Thatcher surprised\
\
Jim Listening\
\
\'93Pap\'94\
\
Huck and his Father\
\
Reforming the Drunkard\
\
Falling from Grace\
\
Getting out of the Way\
\
Solid Comfort\
\
Thinking it Over\
\
Raising a Howl\
\
\'93Git Up\'94\
\
The Shanty\
\
Shooting the Pig\
\
Taking a Rest\
\
In the Woods\
\
Watching the Boat\
\
Discovering the Camp Fire\
\
Jim and the Ghost\
\
Misto Bradish\'92s Nigger\
\
Exploring the Cave\
\
In the Cave\
\
Jim sees a Dead Man\
\
They Found Eight Dollars\
\
Jim and the Snake\
\
Old Hank Bunker\
\
\'93A Fair Fit\'94\
\
\'93Come In\'94\
\
\'93Him and another Man\'94\
\
She puts up a Snack\
\
\'93Hump Yourself\'94\
\
On the Raft\
\
He sometimes Lifted a Chicken\
\
\'93Please don\'92t, Bill\'94\
\
\'93It ain\'92t Good Morals\'94\
\
\'93Oh! Lordy, Lordy!\'94\
\
In a Fix\
\
\'93Hello, What\'92s Up?\'94\
\
The Wreck\
\
We turned in and Slept\
\
Turning over the Truck\
\
Solomon and his Million Wives\
\
The story of \'93Sollermun\'94\
\
\'93We Would Sell the Raft\'94\
\
Among the Snags\
\
Asleep on the Raft\
\
\'93Something being Raftsman\'94\
\
\'93Boy, that\'92s a Lie\'94\
\
\'93Here I is, Huck\'94\
\
Climbing up the Bank\
\
\'93Who\'92s There?\'94\
\
\'93Buck\'94\
\
\'93It made Her look Spidery\'94\
\
\'93They got him out and emptied Him\'94 \'a0\
\
The House\
\
Col. Grangerford\
\
Young Harney Shepherdson\
\
Miss Charlotte\
\
\'93And asked me if I Liked Her\'94\
\
\'93Behind the Wood-pile\'94\
\
Hiding Day-times\
\
\'93And Dogs a-Coming\'94\
\
\'93By rights I am a Duke!\'94\
\
\'93I am the Late Dauphin\'94\
\
Tail Piece\
\
On the Raft\
\
The King as Juliet\
\
\'93Courting on the Sly\'94\
\
\'93A Pirate for Thirty Years\'94\
\
Another little Job\
\
Practizing\
\
Hamlet\'92s Soliloquy\
\
\'93Gimme a Chaw\'94\
\
A Little Monthly Drunk\
\
The Death of Boggs\
\
Sherburn steps out\
\
A Dead Head\
\
He shed Seventeen Suits\
\
Tragedy\
\
Their Pockets Bulged\
\
Henry the Eighth in Boston Harbor\
\
Harmless\
\
Adolphus\
\
He fairly emptied that Young Fellow\
\
\'93Alas, our Poor Brother\'94\
\
\'93You Bet it is\'94\
\
Leaking\
\
Making up the \'93Deffisit\'94\
\
Going for him\
\
The Doctor\
\
The Bag of Money\
\
The Cubby\
\
Supper with the Hare-Lip\
\
Honest Injun\
\
The Duke looks under the Bed\
\
Huck takes the Money\
\
A Crack in the Dining-room Door\
\
The Undertaker\
\
\'93He had a Rat!\'94\
\
\'93Was you in my Room?\'94\
\
Jawing\
\
In Trouble\
\
Indignation\
\
How to Find Them\
\
He Wrote\
\
Hannah with the Mumps\
\
The Auction\
\
The True Brothers\
\
The Doctor leads Huck\
\
The Duke Wrote\
\
\'93Gentlemen, Gentlemen!\'94\
\
\'93Jim Lit Out\'94\
\
The King shakes Huck\
\
The Duke went for Him\
\
Spanish Moss\
\
\'93Who Nailed Him?\'94\
\
Thinking\
\
He gave him Ten Cents\
\
Striking for the Back Country\
\
Still and Sunday-like\
\
She hugged him tight\
\
\'93Who do you reckon it is?\'94\
\
\'93It was Tom Sawyer\'94\
\
\'93Mr. Archibald Nichols, I presume?\'94\
\
A pretty long Blessing\
\
Traveling By Rail\
\
Vittles\
\
A Simple Job\
\
Witches\
\
Getting Wood\
\
One of the Best Authorities\
\
The Breakfast-Horn\
\
Smouching the Knives\
\
Going down the Lightning-Rod\
\
Stealing spoons\
\
Tom advises a Witch Pie\
\
The Rubbage-Pile\
\
\'93Missus, dey\'92s a Sheet Gone\'94\
\
In a Tearing Way\
\
One of his Ancestors\
\
Jim\'92s Coat of Arms\
\
A Tough Job\
\
Buttons on their Tails\
\
Irrigation\
\
Keeping off Dull Times\
\
Sawdust Diet\
\
Trouble is Brewing\
\
Fishing\
\
Every one had a Gun\
\
Tom caught on a Splinter\
\
Jim advises a Doctor\
\
The Doctor\
\
Uncle Silas in Danger\
\
Old Mrs. Hotchkiss\
\
Aunt Sally talks to Huck\
\
Tom Sawyer wounded\
\
The Doctor speaks for Jim\
\
Tom rose square up in Bed\
\
\'93Hand out them Letters\'94\
\
Out of Bondage\
\
Tom\'92s Liberality\
\
Yours Truly\
\
\
\
\
EXPLANATORY\
\
IN this book a number of dialects are used, to wit: \'a0the Missouri negro\
dialect; the extremest form of the backwoods Southwestern dialect; the\
ordinary \'93Pike County\'94 dialect; and four modified varieties of this\
last. The shadings have not been done in a haphazard fashion, or by\
guesswork; but painstakingly, and with the trustworthy guidance and\
support of personal familiarity with these several forms of speech.\
\
I make this explanation for the reason that without it many readers\
would suppose that all these characters were trying to talk alike and\
not succeeding.\
\
THE AUTHOR.\
\
\
\
\
HUCKLEBERRY FINN\
\
Scene: \'a0The Mississippi Valley Time: \'a0Forty to fifty years ago\
\
\
\
\
CHAPTER I.\
\
YOU don\'92t know about me without you have read a book by the name of The\
Adventures of Tom Sawyer; but that ain\'92t no matter. \'a0That book was made\
by Mr. Mark Twain, and he told the truth, mainly. \'a0There was things\
which he stretched, but mainly he told the truth. \'a0That is nothing. \'a0I\
never seen anybody but lied one time or another, without it was Aunt\
Polly, or the widow, or maybe Mary. \'a0Aunt Polly--Tom\'92s Aunt Polly, she\
is--and Mary, and the Widow Douglas is all told about in that book, which\
is mostly a true book, with some stretchers, as I said before.\
\
Now the way that the book winds up is this: \'a0Tom and me found the money\
that the robbers hid in the cave, and it made us rich. \'a0We got six\
thousand dollars apiece--all gold. \'a0It was an awful sight of money when\
it was piled up. \'a0Well, Judge Thatcher he took it and put it out\
at interest, and it fetched us a dollar a day apiece all the year\
round--more than a body could tell what to do with. \'a0The Widow Douglas\
she took me for her son, and allowed she would sivilize me; but it was\
rough living in the house all the time, considering how dismal regular\
and decent the widow was in all her ways; and so when I couldn\'92t stand\
it no longer I lit out. \'a0I got into my old rags and my sugar-hogshead\
again, and was free and satisfied. \'a0But Tom Sawyer he hunted me up and\
said he was going to start a band of robbers, and I might join if I\
would go back to the widow and be respectable. \'a0So I went back.\
\
The widow she cried over me, and called me a poor lost lamb, and she\
called me a lot of other names, too, but she never meant no harm by\
it. She put me in them new clothes again, and I couldn\'92t do nothing but\
sweat and sweat, and feel all cramped up. \'a0Well, then, the old thing\
commenced again. \'a0The widow rung a bell for supper, and you had to come\
to time. When you got to the table you couldn\'92t go right to eating, but\
you had to wait for the widow to tuck down her head and grumble a little\
over the victuals, though there warn\'92t really anything the matter with\
them,--that is, nothing only everything was cooked by itself. \'a0In a\
barrel of odds and ends it is different; things get mixed up, and the\
juice kind of swaps around, and the things go better.\
\
After supper she got out her book and learned me about Moses and the\
Bulrushers, and I was in a sweat to find out all about him; but by and\
by she let it out that Moses had been dead a considerable long time; so\
then I didn\'92t care no more about him, because I don\'92t take no stock in\
dead people.\
\
Pretty soon I wanted to smoke, and asked the widow to let me. \'a0But she\
wouldn\'92t. \'a0She said it was a mean practice and wasn\'92t clean, and I must\
try to not do it any more. \'a0That is just the way with some people. \'a0They\
get down on a thing when they don\'92t know nothing about it. \'a0Here she was\
a-bothering about Moses, which was no kin to her, and no use to anybody,\
being gone, you see, yet finding a power of fault with me for doing a\
thing that had some good in it. \'a0And she took snuff, too; of course that\
was all right, because she done it herself.\
\
Her sister, Miss Watson, a tolerable slim old maid, with goggles on,\
had just come to live with her, and took a set at me now with a\
spelling-book. She worked me middling hard for about an hour, and then\
the widow made her ease up. \'a0I couldn\'92t stood it much longer. \'a0Then for\
an hour it was deadly dull, and I was fidgety. \'a0Miss Watson would say,\
\'93Don\'92t put your feet up there, Huckleberry;\'94 and \'93Don\'92t scrunch up\
like that, Huckleberry--set up straight;\'94 and pretty soon she would\
say, \'93Don\'92t gap and stretch like that, Huckleberry--why don\'92t you try to\
behave?\'94 \'a0Then she told me all about the bad place, and I said I wished\
I was there. She got mad then, but I didn\'92t mean no harm. \'a0All I wanted\
was to go somewheres; all I wanted was a change, I warn\'92t particular.\
\'a0She said it was wicked to say what I said; said she wouldn\'92t say it for\
the whole world; she was going to live so as to go to the good place.\
\'a0Well, I couldn\'92t see no advantage in going where she was going, so I\
made up my mind I wouldn\'92t try for it. \'a0But I never said so, because it\
would only make trouble, and wouldn\'92t do no good.\
\
Now she had got a start, and she went on and told me all about the good\
place. \'a0She said all a body would have to do there was to go around all\
day long with a harp and sing, forever and ever. \'a0So I didn\'92t think\
much of it. But I never said so. \'a0I asked her if she reckoned Tom Sawyer\
would go there, and she said not by a considerable sight. \'a0I was glad\
about that, because I wanted him and me to be together.\
\
Miss Watson she kept pecking at me, and it got tiresome and lonesome.\
\'a0By and by they fetched the niggers in and had prayers, and then\
everybody was off to bed. \'a0I went up to my room with a piece of candle,\
and put it on the table. \'a0Then I set down in a chair by the window and\
tried to think of something cheerful, but it warn\'92t no use. \'a0I felt\
so lonesome I most wished I was dead. \'a0The stars were shining, and the\
leaves rustled in the woods ever so mournful; and I heard an owl, away\
off, who-whooing about somebody that was dead, and a whippowill and a\
dog crying about somebody that was going to die; and the wind was trying\
to whisper something to me, and I couldn\'92t make out what it was, and so\
it made the cold shivers run over me. Then away out in the woods I heard\
that kind of a sound that a ghost makes when it wants to tell about\
something that\'92s on its mind and can\'92t make itself understood, and so\
can\'92t rest easy in its grave, and has to go about that way every night\
grieving. \'a0I got so down-hearted and scared I did wish I had some\
company. \'a0Pretty soon a spider went crawling up my shoulder, and I\
flipped it off and it lit in the candle; and before I could budge it\
was all shriveled up. \'a0I didn\'92t need anybody to tell me that that was\
an awful bad sign and would fetch me some bad luck, so I was scared\
and most shook the clothes off of me. I got up and turned around in my\
tracks three times and crossed my breast every time; and then I tied\
up a little lock of my hair with a thread to keep witches away. \'a0But\
I hadn\'92t no confidence. \'a0You do that when you\'92ve lost a horseshoe that\
you\'92ve found, instead of nailing it up over the door, but I hadn\'92t ever\
heard anybody say it was any way to keep off bad luck when you\'92d killed\
a spider.\
\
I set down again, a-shaking all over, and got out my pipe for a smoke;\
for the house was all as still as death now, and so the widow wouldn\'92t\
know. Well, after a long time I heard the clock away off in the town\
go boom--boom--boom--twelve licks; and all still again--stiller than\
ever. Pretty soon I heard a twig snap down in the dark amongst the\
trees--something was a stirring. \'a0I set still and listened. \'a0Directly I\
could just barely hear a \'93me-yow! me-yow!\'94 down there. \'a0That was good!\
\'a0Says I, \'93me-yow! me-yow!\'94 as soft as I could, and then I put out the\
light and scrambled out of the window on to the shed. \'a0Then I slipped\
down to the ground and crawled in among the trees, and, sure enough,\
there was Tom Sawyer waiting for me.\
\
\
\
\
CHAPTER II.\
\
WE went tiptoeing along a path amongst the trees back towards the end of\
the widow\'92s garden, stooping down so as the branches wouldn\'92t scrape our\
heads. When we was passing by the kitchen I fell over a root and made\
a noise. \'a0We scrouched down and laid still. \'a0Miss Watson\'92s big nigger,\
named Jim, was setting in the kitchen door; we could see him pretty\
clear, because there was a light behind him. \'a0He got up and stretched\
his neck out about a minute, listening. \'a0Then he says:\
\
\'93Who dah?\'94\
\
He listened some more; then he come tiptoeing down and stood right\
between us; we could a touched him, nearly. \'a0Well, likely it was\
minutes and minutes that there warn\'92t a sound, and we all there so close\
together. \'a0There was a place on my ankle that got to itching, but I\
dasn\'92t scratch it; and then my ear begun to itch; and next my back,\
right between my shoulders. \'a0Seemed like I\'92d die if I couldn\'92t scratch.\
\'a0Well, I\'92ve noticed that thing plenty times since. \'a0If you are with\
the quality, or at a funeral, or trying to go to sleep when you ain\'92t\
sleepy--if you are anywheres where it won\'92t do for you to scratch, why\
you will itch all over in upwards of a thousand places. Pretty soon Jim\
says:\
\
\'93Say, who is you? \'a0Whar is you? \'a0Dog my cats ef I didn\'92 hear sumf\'92n.\
Well, I know what I\'92s gwyne to do: \'a0I\'92s gwyne to set down here and\
listen tell I hears it agin.\'94\
\
So he set down on the ground betwixt me and Tom. \'a0He leaned his back up\
against a tree, and stretched his legs out till one of them most touched\
one of mine. \'a0My nose begun to itch. \'a0It itched till the tears come into\
my eyes. \'a0But I dasn\'92t scratch. \'a0Then it begun to itch on the inside.\
Next I got to itching underneath. \'a0I didn\'92t know how I was going to set\
still. This miserableness went on as much as six or seven minutes; but\
it seemed a sight longer than that. \'a0I was itching in eleven different\
places now. \'a0I reckoned I couldn\'92t stand it more\'92n a minute longer,\
but I set my teeth hard and got ready to try. \'a0Just then Jim begun\
to breathe heavy; next he begun to snore--and then I was pretty soon\
comfortable again.\
\
Tom he made a sign to me--kind of a little noise with his mouth--and we\
went creeping away on our hands and knees. \'a0When we was ten foot off Tom\
whispered to me, and wanted to tie Jim to the tree for fun. \'a0But I said\
no; he might wake and make a disturbance, and then they\'92d find out I\
warn\'92t in. Then Tom said he hadn\'92t got candles enough, and he would slip\
in the kitchen and get some more. \'a0I didn\'92t want him to try. \'a0I said Jim\
might wake up and come. \'a0But Tom wanted to resk it; so we slid in there\
and got three candles, and Tom laid five cents on the table for pay.\
Then we got out, and I was in a sweat to get away; but nothing would do\
Tom but he must crawl to where Jim was, on his hands and knees, and play\
something on him. \'a0I waited, and it seemed a good while, everything was\
so still and lonesome.\
\
As soon as Tom was back we cut along the path, around the garden fence,\
and by and by fetched up on the steep top of the hill the other side of\
the house. \'a0Tom said he slipped Jim\'92s hat off of his head and hung it\
on a limb right over him, and Jim stirred a little, but he didn\'92t wake.\
Afterwards Jim said the witches be witched him and put him in a trance,\
and rode him all over the State, and then set him under the trees again,\
and hung his hat on a limb to show who done it. \'a0And next time Jim told\
it he said they rode him down to New Orleans; and, after that, every\
time he told it he spread it more and more, till by and by he said they\
rode him all over the world, and tired him most to death, and his back\
was all over saddle-boils. \'a0Jim was monstrous proud about it, and he\
got so he wouldn\'92t hardly notice the other niggers. \'a0Niggers would come\
miles to hear Jim tell about it, and he was more looked up to than any\
nigger in that country. \'a0Strange niggers would stand with their mouths\
open and look him all over, same as if he was a wonder. \'a0Niggers is\
always talking about witches in the dark by the kitchen fire; but\
whenever one was talking and letting on to know all about such things,\
Jim would happen in and say, \'93Hm! \'a0What you know \'91bout witches?\'94 and\
that nigger was corked up and had to take a back seat. \'a0Jim always kept\
that five-center piece round his neck with a string, and said it was a\
charm the devil give to him with his own hands, and told him he could\
cure anybody with it and fetch witches whenever he wanted to just by\
saying something to it; but he never told what it was he said to it.\
\'a0Niggers would come from all around there and give Jim anything they\
had, just for a sight of that five-center piece; but they wouldn\'92t touch\
it, because the devil had had his hands on it. \'a0Jim was most ruined for\
a servant, because he got stuck up on account of having seen the devil\
and been rode by witches.\
\
Well, when Tom and me got to the edge of the hilltop we looked away down\
into the village and could see three or four lights twinkling, where\
there was sick folks, maybe; and the stars over us was sparkling ever\
so fine; and down by the village was the river, a whole mile broad, and\
awful still and grand. \'a0We went down the hill and found Jo Harper and\
Ben Rogers, and two or three more of the boys, hid in the old tanyard.\
\'a0So we unhitched a skiff and pulled down the river two mile and a half,\
to the big scar on the hillside, and went ashore.\
\
We went to a clump of bushes, and Tom made everybody swear to keep the\
secret, and then showed them a hole in the hill, right in the thickest\
part of the bushes. \'a0Then we lit the candles, and crawled in on our\
hands and knees. \'a0We went about two hundred yards, and then the cave\
opened up. Tom poked about amongst the passages, and pretty soon ducked\
under a wall where you wouldn\'92t a noticed that there was a hole. \'a0We\
went along a narrow place and got into a kind of room, all damp and\
sweaty and cold, and there we stopped. \'a0Tom says:\
\
\'93Now, we\'92ll start this band of robbers and call it Tom Sawyer\'92s Gang.\
Everybody that wants to join has got to take an oath, and write his name\
in blood.\'94\
\
Everybody was willing. \'a0So Tom got out a sheet of paper that he had\
wrote the oath on, and read it. \'a0It swore every boy to stick to the\
band, and never tell any of the secrets; and if anybody done anything to\
any boy in the band, whichever boy was ordered to kill that person and\
his family must do it, and he mustn\'92t eat and he mustn\'92t sleep till he\
had killed them and hacked a cross in their breasts, which was the sign\
of the band. And nobody that didn\'92t belong to the band could use that\
mark, and if he did he must be sued; and if he done it again he must be\
killed. \'a0And if anybody that belonged to the band told the secrets, he\
must have his throat cut, and then have his carcass burnt up and the\
ashes scattered all around, and his name blotted off of the list with\
blood and never mentioned again by the gang, but have a curse put on it\
and be forgot forever.\
\
Everybody said it was a real beautiful oath, and asked Tom if he got\
it out of his own head. \'a0He said, some of it, but the rest was out of\
pirate-books and robber-books, and every gang that was high-toned had\
it.\
\
Some thought it would be good to kill the _families_ of boys that told\
the secrets. \'a0Tom said it was a good idea, so he took a pencil and wrote\
it in. Then Ben Rogers says:\
\
\'93Here\'92s Huck Finn, he hain\'92t got no family; what you going to do \'91bout\
him?\'94\
\
\'93Well, hain\'92t he got a father?\'94 says Tom Sawyer.\
\
\'93Yes, he\'92s got a father, but you can\'92t never find him these days. \'a0He\
used to lay drunk with the hogs in the tanyard, but he hain\'92t been seen\
in these parts for a year or more.\'94\
\
They talked it over, and they was going to rule me out, because they\
said every boy must have a family or somebody to kill, or else it\
wouldn\'92t be fair and square for the others. \'a0Well, nobody could think of\
anything to do--everybody was stumped, and set still. \'a0I was most ready\
to cry; but all at once I thought of a way, and so I offered them Miss\
Watson--they could kill her. \'a0Everybody said:\
\
\'93Oh, she\'92ll do. \'a0That\'92s all right. \'a0Huck can come in.\'94\
\
Then they all stuck a pin in their fingers to get blood to sign with,\
and I made my mark on the paper.\
\
\'93Now,\'94 says Ben Rogers, \'93what\'92s the line of business of this Gang?\'94\
\
\'93Nothing only robbery and murder,\'94 Tom said.\
\
\'93But who are we going to rob?--houses, or cattle, or--\'94\
\
\'93Stuff! stealing cattle and such things ain\'92t robbery; it\'92s burglary,\'94\
 says Tom Sawyer.  \'93We ain\'92t burglars. \'a0That ain\'92t no sort of style. \'a0We\
are highwaymen. \'a0We stop stages and carriages on the road, with masks\
on, and kill the people and take their watches and money.\'94\
\
\'93Must we always kill the people?\'94\
\
\'93Oh, certainly. \'a0It\'92s best. \'a0Some authorities think different, but\
mostly it\'92s considered best to kill them--except some that you bring to\
the cave here, and keep them till they\'92re ransomed.\'94\
\
\'93Ransomed? \'a0What\'92s that?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know. \'a0But that\'92s what they do. \'a0I\'92ve seen it in books; and so\
of course that\'92s what we\'92ve got to do.\'94\
\
\'93But how can we do it if we don\'92t know what it is?\'94\
\
\'93Why, blame it all, we\'92ve _got_ to do it. \'a0Don\'92t I tell you it\'92s in the\
books? \'a0Do you want to go to doing different from what\'92s in the books,\
and get things all muddled up?\'94\
\
\'93Oh, that\'92s all very fine to _say_, Tom Sawyer, but how in the nation\
are these fellows going to be ransomed if we don\'92t know how to do it\
to them?--that\'92s the thing I want to get at. \'a0Now, what do you reckon it\
is?\'94\
\
\'93Well, I don\'92t know. \'a0But per\'92aps if we keep them till they\'92re ransomed,\
it means that we keep them till they\'92re dead.\'94\
\
\'93Now, that\'92s something _like_. \'a0That\'92ll answer. \'a0Why couldn\'92t you said\
that before? \'a0We\'92ll keep them till they\'92re ransomed to death; and a\
bothersome lot they\'92ll be, too--eating up everything, and always trying\
to get loose.\'94\
\
\'93How you talk, Ben Rogers. \'a0How can they get loose when there\'92s a guard\
over them, ready to shoot them down if they move a peg?\'94\
\
\'93A guard! \'a0Well, that _is_ good. \'a0So somebody\'92s got to set up all night\
and never get any sleep, just so as to watch them. \'a0I think that\'92s\
foolishness. Why can\'92t a body take a club and ransom them as soon as\
they get here?\'94\
\
\'93Because it ain\'92t in the books so--that\'92s why. \'a0Now, Ben Rogers, do you\
want to do things regular, or don\'92t you?--that\'92s the idea. \'a0Don\'92t you\
reckon that the people that made the books knows what\'92s the correct\
thing to do? \'a0Do you reckon _you_ can learn \'91em anything? \'a0Not by a good\
deal. No, sir, we\'92ll just go on and ransom them in the regular way.\'94\
\
\'93All right. \'a0I don\'92t mind; but I say it\'92s a fool way, anyhow. \'a0Say, do\
we kill the women, too?\'94\
\
\'93Well, Ben Rogers, if I was as ignorant as you I wouldn\'92t let on. \'a0Kill\
the women? \'a0No; nobody ever saw anything in the books like that. \'a0You\
fetch them to the cave, and you\'92re always as polite as pie to them;\
and by and by they fall in love with you, and never want to go home any\
more.\'94\
\
\'93Well, if that\'92s the way I\'92m agreed, but I don\'92t take no stock in it.\
Mighty soon we\'92ll have the cave so cluttered up with women, and fellows\
waiting to be ransomed, that there won\'92t be no place for the robbers.\
But go ahead, I ain\'92t got nothing to say.\'94\
\
Little Tommy Barnes was asleep now, and when they waked him up he was\
scared, and cried, and said he wanted to go home to his ma, and didn\'92t\
want to be a robber any more.\
\
So they all made fun of him, and called him cry-baby, and that made him\
mad, and he said he would go straight and tell all the secrets. \'a0But\
Tom give him five cents to keep quiet, and said we would all go home and\
meet next week, and rob somebody and kill some people.\
\
Ben Rogers said he couldn\'92t get out much, only Sundays, and so he wanted\
to begin next Sunday; but all the boys said it would be wicked to do it\
on Sunday, and that settled the thing. \'a0They agreed to get together and\
fix a day as soon as they could, and then we elected Tom Sawyer first\
captain and Jo Harper second captain of the Gang, and so started home.\
\
I clumb up the shed and crept into my window just before day was\
breaking. My new clothes was all greased up and clayey, and I was\
dog-tired.\
\
\
\
\
CHAPTER III.\
\
WELL, I got a good going-over in the morning from old Miss Watson on\
account of my clothes; but the widow she didn\'92t scold, but only cleaned\
off the grease and clay, and looked so sorry that I thought I would\
behave awhile if I could. \'a0Then Miss Watson she took me in the closet\
and prayed, but nothing come of it. \'a0She told me to pray every day, and\
whatever I asked for I would get it. \'a0But it warn\'92t so. \'a0I tried it.\
Once I got a fish-line, but no hooks. \'a0It warn\'92t any good to me without\
hooks. \'a0I tried for the hooks three or four times, but somehow I\
couldn\'92t make it work. \'a0By and by, one day, I asked Miss Watson to\
try for me, but she said I was a fool. \'a0She never told me why, and I\
couldn\'92t make it out no way.\
\
I set down one time back in the woods, and had a long think about it.\
\'a0I says to myself, if a body can get anything they pray for, why don\'92t\
Deacon Winn get back the money he lost on pork? \'a0Why can\'92t the widow get\
back her silver snuffbox that was stole? \'a0Why can\'92t Miss Watson fat up?\
No, says I to my self, there ain\'92t nothing in it. \'a0I went and told the\
widow about it, and she said the thing a body could get by praying for\
it was \'93spiritual gifts.\'94 \'a0This was too many for me, but she told me\
what she meant--I must help other people, and do everything I could for\
other people, and look out for them all the time, and never think about\
myself. This was including Miss Watson, as I took it. \'a0I went out in the\
woods and turned it over in my mind a long time, but I couldn\'92t see no\
advantage about it--except for the other people; so at last I reckoned\
I wouldn\'92t worry about it any more, but just let it go. \'a0Sometimes the\
widow would take me one side and talk about Providence in a way to make\
a body\'92s mouth water; but maybe next day Miss Watson would take hold\
and knock it all down again. \'a0I judged I could see that there was two\
Providences, and a poor chap would stand considerable show with the\
widow\'92s Providence, but if Miss Watson\'92s got him there warn\'92t no help\
for him any more. \'a0I thought it all out, and reckoned I would belong\
to the widow\'92s if he wanted me, though I couldn\'92t make out how he was\
a-going to be any better off then than what he was before, seeing I was\
so ignorant, and so kind of low-down and ornery.\
\
Pap he hadn\'92t been seen for more than a year, and that was comfortable\
for me; I didn\'92t want to see him no more. \'a0He used to always whale me\
when he was sober and could get his hands on me; though I used to take\
to the woods most of the time when he was around. \'a0Well, about this time\
he was found in the river drownded, about twelve mile above town, so\
people said. \'a0They judged it was him, anyway; said this drownded man was\
just his size, and was ragged, and had uncommon long hair, which was all\
like pap; but they couldn\'92t make nothing out of the face, because it had\
been in the water so long it warn\'92t much like a face at all. \'a0They said\
he was floating on his back in the water. \'a0They took him and buried him\
on the bank. \'a0But I warn\'92t comfortable long, because I happened to think\
of something. \'a0I knowed mighty well that a drownded man don\'92t float on\
his back, but on his face. \'a0So I knowed, then, that this warn\'92t pap, but\
a woman dressed up in a man\'92s clothes. \'a0So I was uncomfortable again.\
\'a0I judged the old man would turn up again by and by, though I wished he\
wouldn\'92t.\
\
We played robber now and then about a month, and then I resigned. \'a0All\
the boys did. \'a0We hadn\'92t robbed nobody, hadn\'92t killed any people, but\
only just pretended. \'a0We used to hop out of the woods and go charging\
down on hog-drivers and women in carts taking garden stuff to market,\
but we never hived any of them. \'a0Tom Sawyer called the hogs \'93ingots,\'94\
 and he called the turnips and stuff \'93julery,\'94 and we would go to the\
cave and powwow over what we had done, and how many people we had killed\
and marked. \'a0But I couldn\'92t see no profit in it. \'a0One time Tom sent a\
boy to run about town with a blazing stick, which he called a slogan\
(which was the sign for the Gang to get together), and then he said he\
had got secret news by his spies that next day a whole parcel of Spanish\
merchants and rich A-rabs was going to camp in Cave Hollow with two\
hundred elephants, and six hundred camels, and over a thousand \'93sumter\'94\
 mules, all loaded down with di\'92monds, and they didn\'92t have only a guard\
of four hundred soldiers, and so we would lay in ambuscade, as he called\
it, and kill the lot and scoop the things. \'a0He said we must slick up\
our swords and guns, and get ready. \'a0He never could go after even a\
turnip-cart but he must have the swords and guns all scoured up for it,\
though they was only lath and broomsticks, and you might scour at them\
till you rotted, and then they warn\'92t worth a mouthful of ashes more\
than what they was before. \'a0I didn\'92t believe we could lick such a crowd\
of Spaniards and A-rabs, but I wanted to see the camels and elephants,\
so I was on hand next day, Saturday, in the ambuscade; and when we got\
the word we rushed out of the woods and down the hill. \'a0But there warn\'92t\
no Spaniards and A-rabs, and there warn\'92t no camels nor no elephants.\
\'a0It warn\'92t anything but a Sunday-school picnic, and only a primer-class\
at that. \'a0We busted it up, and chased the children up the hollow; but we\
never got anything but some doughnuts and jam, though Ben Rogers got\
a rag doll, and Jo Harper got a hymn-book and a tract; and then the\
teacher charged in, and made us drop everything and cut.\
\
\'a0I didn\'92t see no di\'92monds, and I told Tom Sawyer so. \'a0He said there was\
loads of them there, anyway; and he said there was A-rabs there, too,\
and elephants and things. \'a0I said, why couldn\'92t we see them, then? \'a0He\
said if I warn\'92t so ignorant, but had read a book called Don Quixote, I\
would know without asking. \'a0He said it was all done by enchantment. \'a0He\
said there was hundreds of soldiers there, and elephants and treasure,\
and so on, but we had enemies which he called magicians; and they had\
turned the whole thing into an infant Sunday-school, just out of spite.\
\'a0I said, all right; then the thing for us to do was to go for the\
magicians. \'a0Tom Sawyer said I was a numskull.\
\
\'93Why,\'94 said he, \'93a magician could call up a lot of genies, and they\
would hash you up like nothing before you could say Jack Robinson. \'a0They\
are as tall as a tree and as big around as a church.\'94\
\
\'93Well,\'94 I says, \'93s\'92pose we got some genies to help _us_--can\'92t we lick\
the other crowd then?\'94\
\
\'93How you going to get them?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know. \'a0How do _they_ get them?\'94\
\
\'93Why, they rub an old tin lamp or an iron ring, and then the genies\
come tearing in, with the thunder and lightning a-ripping around and the\
smoke a-rolling, and everything they\'92re told to do they up and do it.\
\'a0They don\'92t think nothing of pulling a shot-tower up by the roots, and\
belting a Sunday-school superintendent over the head with it--or any\
other man.\'94\
\
\'93Who makes them tear around so?\'94\
\
\'93Why, whoever rubs the lamp or the ring. \'a0They belong to whoever rubs\
the lamp or the ring, and they\'92ve got to do whatever he says. \'a0If he\
tells them to build a palace forty miles long out of di\'92monds, and fill\
it full of chewing-gum, or whatever you want, and fetch an emperor\'92s\
daughter from China for you to marry, they\'92ve got to do it--and they\'92ve\
got to do it before sun-up next morning, too. \'a0And more: \'a0they\'92ve got\
to waltz that palace around over the country wherever you want it, you\
understand.\'94\
\
\'93Well,\'94 says I, \'93I think they are a pack of flat-heads for not keeping\
the palace themselves \'91stead of fooling them away like that. \'a0And what\'92s\
more--if I was one of them I would see a man in Jericho before I would\
drop my business and come to him for the rubbing of an old tin lamp.\'94\
\
\'93How you talk, Huck Finn. \'a0Why, you\'92d _have_ to come when he rubbed it,\
whether you wanted to or not.\'94\
\
\'93What! and I as high as a tree and as big as a church? \'a0All right, then;\
I _would_ come; but I lay I\'92d make that man climb the highest tree there\
was in the country.\'94\
\
\'93Shucks, it ain\'92t no use to talk to you, Huck Finn. \'a0You don\'92t seem to\
know anything, somehow--perfect saphead.\'94\
\
I thought all this over for two or three days, and then I reckoned I\
would see if there was anything in it. \'a0I got an old tin lamp and an\
iron ring, and went out in the woods and rubbed and rubbed till I sweat\
like an Injun, calculating to build a palace and sell it; but it warn\'92t\
no use, none of the genies come. \'a0So then I judged that all that stuff\
was only just one of Tom Sawyer\'92s lies. \'a0I reckoned he believed in the\
A-rabs and the elephants, but as for me I think different. \'a0It had all\
the marks of a Sunday-school.\
\
\
\
\
CHAPTER IV.\
\
WELL, three or four months run along, and it was well into the winter\
now. I had been to school most all the time and could spell and read and\
write just a little, and could say the multiplication table up to six\
times seven is thirty-five, and I don\'92t reckon I could ever get any\
further than that if I was to live forever. \'a0I don\'92t take no stock in\
mathematics, anyway.\
\
At first I hated the school, but by and by I got so I could stand it.\
Whenever I got uncommon tired I played hookey, and the hiding I got next\
day done me good and cheered me up. \'a0So the longer I went to school the\
easier it got to be. \'a0I was getting sort of used to the widow\'92s ways,\
too, and they warn\'92t so raspy on me. \'a0Living in a house and sleeping in\
a bed pulled on me pretty tight mostly, but before the cold weather I\
used to slide out and sleep in the woods sometimes, and so that was a\
rest to me. \'a0I liked the old ways best, but I was getting so I liked the\
new ones, too, a little bit. The widow said I was coming along slow but\
sure, and doing very satisfactory. \'a0She said she warn\'92t ashamed of me.\
\
One morning I happened to turn over the salt-cellar at breakfast.\
\'a0I reached for some of it as quick as I could to throw over my left\
shoulder and keep off the bad luck, but Miss Watson was in ahead of me,\
and crossed me off. She says, \'93Take your hands away, Huckleberry; what\
a mess you are always making!\'94 \'a0The widow put in a good word for me, but\
that warn\'92t going to keep off the bad luck, I knowed that well enough.\
\'a0I started out, after breakfast, feeling worried and shaky, and\
wondering where it was going to fall on me, and what it was going to be.\
\'a0There is ways to keep off some kinds of bad luck, but this wasn\'92t one\
of them kind; so I never tried to do anything, but just poked along\
low-spirited and on the watch-out.\
\
I went down to the front garden and clumb over the stile where you go\
through the high board fence. \'a0There was an inch of new snow on the\
ground, and I seen somebody\'92s tracks. \'a0They had come up from the quarry\
and stood around the stile a while, and then went on around the garden\
fence. \'a0It was funny they hadn\'92t come in, after standing around so. \'a0I\
couldn\'92t make it out. \'a0It was very curious, somehow. \'a0I was going to\
follow around, but I stooped down to look at the tracks first. \'a0I didn\'92t\
notice anything at first, but next I did. \'a0There was a cross in the left\
boot-heel made with big nails, to keep off the devil.\
\
I was up in a second and shinning down the hill. \'a0I looked over my\
shoulder every now and then, but I didn\'92t see nobody. \'a0I was at Judge\
Thatcher\'92s as quick as I could get there. \'a0He said:\
\
\'93Why, my boy, you are all out of breath. \'a0Did you come for your\
interest?\'94\
\
\'93No, sir,\'94 I says; \'93is there some for me?\'94\
\
\'93Oh, yes, a half-yearly is in last night--over a hundred and fifty\
dollars. \'a0Quite a fortune for you. \'a0You had better let me invest it\
along with your six thousand, because if you take it you\'92ll spend it.\'94\
\
\'93No, sir,\'94 I says, \'93I don\'92t want to spend it. \'a0I don\'92t want it at\
all--nor the six thousand, nuther. \'a0I want you to take it; I want to give\
it to you--the six thousand and all.\'94\
\
He looked surprised. \'a0He couldn\'92t seem to make it out. \'a0He says:\
\
\'93Why, what can you mean, my boy?\'94\
\
I says, \'93Don\'92t you ask me no questions about it, please. \'a0You\'92ll take\
it--won\'92t you?\'94\
\
He says:\
\
\'93Well, I\'92m puzzled. \'a0Is something the matter?\'94\
\
\'93Please take it,\'94 says I, \'93and don\'92t ask me nothing--then I won\'92t have to\
tell no lies.\'94\
\
He studied a while, and then he says:\
\
\'93Oho-o! \'a0I think I see. \'a0You want to _sell_ all your property to me--not\
give it. \'a0That\'92s the correct idea.\'94\
\
Then he wrote something on a paper and read it over, and says:\
\
\'93There; you see it says \'91for a consideration.\'92 \'a0That means I have bought\
it of you and paid you for it. \'a0Here\'92s a dollar for you. \'a0Now you sign\
it.\'94\
\
So I signed it, and left.\
\
Miss Watson\'92s nigger, Jim, had a hair-ball as big as your fist, which\
had been took out of the fourth stomach of an ox, and he used to do\
magic with it. \'a0He said there was a spirit inside of it, and it knowed\
everything. \'a0So I went to him that night and told him pap was here\
again, for I found his tracks in the snow. \'a0What I wanted to know was,\
what he was going to do, and was he going to stay? \'a0Jim got out his\
hair-ball and said something over it, and then he held it up and dropped\
it on the floor. \'a0It fell pretty solid, and only rolled about an inch.\
\'a0Jim tried it again, and then another time, and it acted just the same.\
\'a0Jim got down on his knees, and put his ear against it and listened.\
\'a0But it warn\'92t no use; he said it wouldn\'92t talk. He said sometimes it\
wouldn\'92t talk without money. \'a0I told him I had an old slick counterfeit\
quarter that warn\'92t no good because the brass showed through the silver\
a little, and it wouldn\'92t pass nohow, even if the brass didn\'92t show,\
because it was so slick it felt greasy, and so that would tell on it\
every time. \'a0(I reckoned I wouldn\'92t say nothing about the dollar I got\
from the judge.) I said it was pretty bad money, but maybe the hair-ball\
would take it, because maybe it wouldn\'92t know the difference. \'a0Jim smelt\
it and bit it and rubbed it, and said he would manage so the hair-ball\
would think it was good. \'a0He said he would split open a raw Irish potato\
and stick the quarter in between and keep it there all night, and next\
morning you couldn\'92t see no brass, and it wouldn\'92t feel greasy no more,\
and so anybody in town would take it in a minute, let alone a hair-ball.\
\'a0Well, I knowed a potato would do that before, but I had forgot it.\
\
Jim put the quarter under the hair-ball, and got down and listened\
again. This time he said the hair-ball was all right. \'a0He said it\
would tell my whole fortune if I wanted it to. \'a0I says, go on. \'a0So the\
hair-ball talked to Jim, and Jim told it to me. \'a0He says:\
\
\'93Yo\'92 ole father doan\'92 know yit what he\'92s a-gwyne to do. \'a0Sometimes he\
spec he\'92ll go \'91way, en den agin he spec he\'92ll stay. \'a0De bes\'92 way is to\
res\'92 easy en let de ole man take his own way. \'a0Dey\'92s two angels hoverin\'92\
roun\'92 \'91bout him. \'a0One uv \'91em is white en shiny, en t\'92other one is black.\
De white one gits him to go right a little while, den de black one sail\
in en bust it all up. \'a0A body can\'92t tell yit which one gwyne to fetch\
him at de las\'92. \'a0But you is all right. \'a0You gwyne to have considable\
trouble in yo\'92 life, en considable joy. \'a0Sometimes you gwyne to git\
hurt, en sometimes you gwyne to git sick; but every time you\'92s gwyne\
to git well agin. \'a0Dey\'92s two gals flyin\'92 \'91bout you in yo\'92 life. \'a0One\
uv \'91em\'92s light en t\'92other one is dark. One is rich en t\'92other is po\'92.\
\'a0You\'92s gwyne to marry de po\'92 one fust en de rich one by en by. \'a0You\
wants to keep \'91way fum de water as much as you kin, en don\'92t run no\
resk, \'91kase it\'92s down in de bills dat you\'92s gwyne to git hung.\'94\
\
When I lit my candle and went up to my room that night there sat pap his\
own self!\
\
\
\
\
CHAPTER V.\
\
I had shut the door to. \'a0Then I turned around and there he was. \'a0I used\
to be scared of him all the time, he tanned me so much. \'a0I reckoned I\
was scared now, too; but in a minute I see I was mistaken--that is, after\
the first jolt, as you may say, when my breath sort of hitched, he being\
so unexpected; but right away after I see I warn\'92t scared of him worth\
bothring about.\
\
He was most fifty, and he looked it. \'a0His hair was long and tangled and\
greasy, and hung down, and you could see his eyes shining through\
like he was behind vines. \'a0It was all black, no gray; so was his long,\
mixed-up whiskers. \'a0There warn\'92t no color in his face, where his face\
showed; it was white; not like another man\'92s white, but a white to make\
a body sick, a white to make a body\'92s flesh crawl--a tree-toad white, a\
fish-belly white. \'a0As for his clothes--just rags, that was all. \'a0He had\
one ankle resting on t\'92other knee; the boot on that foot was busted, and\
two of his toes stuck through, and he worked them now and then. \'a0His hat\
was laying on the floor--an old black slouch with the top caved in, like\
a lid.\
\
I stood a-looking at him; he set there a-looking at me, with his chair\
tilted back a little. \'a0I set the candle down. \'a0I noticed the window was\
up; so he had clumb in by the shed. \'a0He kept a-looking me all over. \'a0By\
and by he says:\
\
\'93Starchy clothes--very. \'a0You think you\'92re a good deal of a big-bug,\
_don\'92t_ you?\'94\
\
\'93Maybe I am, maybe I ain\'92t,\'94 I says.\
\
\'93Don\'92t you give me none o\'92 your lip,\'94 says he.  \'93You\'92ve put on\
considerable many frills since I been away. \'a0I\'92ll take you down a peg\
before I get done with you. \'a0You\'92re educated, too, they say--can read and\
write. \'a0You think you\'92re better\'92n your father, now, don\'92t you, because\
he can\'92t? \'a0_I\'92ll_ take it out of you. \'a0Who told you you might meddle\
with such hifalut\'92n foolishness, hey?--who told you you could?\'94\
\
\'93The widow. \'a0She told me.\'94\
\
\'93The widow, hey?--and who told the widow she could put in her shovel\
about a thing that ain\'92t none of her business?\'94\
\
\'93Nobody never told her.\'94\
\
\'93Well, I\'92ll learn her how to meddle. \'a0And looky here--you drop that\
school, you hear? \'a0I\'92ll learn people to bring up a boy to put on airs\
over his own father and let on to be better\'92n what _he_ is. \'a0You lemme\
catch you fooling around that school again, you hear? \'a0Your mother\
couldn\'92t read, and she couldn\'92t write, nuther, before she died. \'a0None\
of the family couldn\'92t before _they_ died. \'a0I can\'92t; and here you\'92re\
a-swelling yourself up like this. \'a0I ain\'92t the man to stand it--you hear?\
Say, lemme hear you read.\'94\
\
I took up a book and begun something about General Washington and the\
wars. When I\'92d read about a half a minute, he fetched the book a whack\
with his hand and knocked it across the house. \'a0He says:\
\
\'93It\'92s so. \'a0You can do it. \'a0I had my doubts when you told me. \'a0Now looky\
here; you stop that putting on frills. \'a0I won\'92t have it. \'a0I\'92ll lay for\
you, my smarty; and if I catch you about that school I\'92ll tan you good.\
First you know you\'92ll get religion, too. \'a0I never see such a son.\'94\
\
He took up a little blue and yaller picture of some cows and a boy, and\
says:\
\
\'93What\'92s this?\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s something they give me for learning my lessons good.\'94\
\
He tore it up, and says:\
\
\'93I\'92ll give you something better--I\'92ll give you a cowhide.\'94\
\
He set there a-mumbling and a-growling a minute, and then he says:\
\
\'93_Ain\'92t_ you a sweet-scented dandy, though? \'a0A bed; and bedclothes; and\
a look\'92n\'92-glass; and a piece of carpet on the floor--and your own father\
got to sleep with the hogs in the tanyard. \'a0I never see such a son. \'a0I\
bet I\'92ll take some o\'92 these frills out o\'92 you before I\'92m done with you.\
Why, there ain\'92t no end to your airs--they say you\'92re rich. \'a0Hey?--how\'92s\
that?\'94\
\
\'93They lie--that\'92s how.\'94\
\
\'93Looky here--mind how you talk to me; I\'92m a-standing about all I can\
stand now--so don\'92t gimme no sass. \'a0I\'92ve been in town two days, and I\
hain\'92t heard nothing but about you bein\'92 rich. \'a0I heard about it\
away down the river, too. \'a0That\'92s why I come. \'a0You git me that money\
to-morrow--I want it.\'94\
\
\'93I hain\'92t got no money.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s a lie. \'a0Judge Thatcher\'92s got it. \'a0You git it. \'a0I want it.\'94\
\
\'93I hain\'92t got no money, I tell you. \'a0You ask Judge Thatcher; he\'92ll tell\
you the same.\'94\
\
\'93All right. \'a0I\'92ll ask him; and I\'92ll make him pungle, too, or I\'92ll know\
the reason why. \'a0Say, how much you got in your pocket? \'a0I want it.\'94\
\
\'93I hain\'92t got only a dollar, and I want that to--\'94\
\
\'93It don\'92t make no difference what you want it for--you just shell it\
out.\'94\
\
He took it and bit it to see if it was good, and then he said he was\
going down town to get some whisky; said he hadn\'92t had a drink all day.\
When he had got out on the shed he put his head in again, and cussed\
me for putting on frills and trying to be better than him; and when I\
reckoned he was gone he come back and put his head in again, and told me\
to mind about that school, because he was going to lay for me and lick\
me if I didn\'92t drop that.\
\
Next day he was drunk, and he went to Judge Thatcher\'92s and bullyragged\
him, and tried to make him give up the money; but he couldn\'92t, and then\
he swore he\'92d make the law force him.\
\
The judge and the widow went to law to get the court to take me away\
from him and let one of them be my guardian; but it was a new judge that\
had just come, and he didn\'92t know the old man; so he said courts mustn\'92t\
interfere and separate families if they could help it; said he\'92d druther\
not take a child away from its father. \'a0So Judge Thatcher and the widow\
had to quit on the business.\
\
That pleased the old man till he couldn\'92t rest. \'a0He said he\'92d cowhide\
me till I was black and blue if I didn\'92t raise some money for him. \'a0I\
borrowed three dollars from Judge Thatcher, and pap took it and got\
drunk, and went a-blowing around and cussing and whooping and carrying\
on; and he kept it up all over town, with a tin pan, till most midnight;\
then they jailed him, and next day they had him before court, and jailed\
him again for a week. \'a0But he said _he_ was satisfied; said he was boss\
of his son, and he\'92d make it warm for _him_.\
\
When he got out the new judge said he was a-going to make a man of him.\
So he took him to his own house, and dressed him up clean and nice, and\
had him to breakfast and dinner and supper with the family, and was just\
old pie to him, so to speak. \'a0And after supper he talked to him about\
temperance and such things till the old man cried, and said he\'92d been\
a fool, and fooled away his life; but now he was a-going to turn over\
a new leaf and be a man nobody wouldn\'92t be ashamed of, and he hoped the\
judge would help him and not look down on him. \'a0The judge said he could\
hug him for them words; so he cried, and his wife she cried again; pap\
said he\'92d been a man that had always been misunderstood before, and the\
judge said he believed it. \'a0The old man said that what a man wanted\
that was down was sympathy, and the judge said it was so; so they cried\
again. \'a0And when it was bedtime the old man rose up and held out his\
hand, and says:\
\
\'93Look at it, gentlemen and ladies all; take a-hold of it; shake it.\
There\'92s a hand that was the hand of a hog; but it ain\'92t so no more; it\'92s\
the hand of a man that\'92s started in on a new life, and\'92ll die before\
he\'92ll go back. \'a0You mark them words--don\'92t forget I said them. \'a0It\'92s a\
clean hand now; shake it--don\'92t be afeard.\'94\
\
So they shook it, one after the other, all around, and cried. \'a0The\
judge\'92s wife she kissed it. \'a0Then the old man he signed a pledge--made\
his mark. The judge said it was the holiest time on record, or something\
like that. Then they tucked the old man into a beautiful room, which was\
the spare room, and in the night some time he got powerful thirsty and\
clumb out on to the porch-roof and slid down a stanchion and traded his\
new coat for a jug of forty-rod, and clumb back again and had a good old\
time; and towards daylight he crawled out again, drunk as a fiddler, and\
rolled off the porch and broke his left arm in two places, and was most\
froze to death when somebody found him after sun-up. \'a0And when they come\
to look at that spare room they had to take soundings before they could\
navigate it.\
\
The judge he felt kind of sore. \'a0He said he reckoned a body could reform\
the old man with a shotgun, maybe, but he didn\'92t know no other way.\
\
\
\
\
CHAPTER VI.\
\
WELL, pretty soon the old man was up and around again, and then he went\
for Judge Thatcher in the courts to make him give up that money, and he\
went for me, too, for not stopping school. \'a0He catched me a couple of\
times and thrashed me, but I went to school just the same, and dodged\
him or outrun him most of the time. \'a0I didn\'92t want to go to school much\
before, but I reckoned I\'92d go now to spite pap. \'a0That law trial was a\
slow business--appeared like they warn\'92t ever going to get started on it;\
so every now and then I\'92d borrow two or three dollars off of the judge\
for him, to keep from getting a cowhiding. \'a0Every time he got money he\
got drunk; and every time he got drunk he raised Cain around town; and\
every time he raised Cain he got jailed. \'a0He was just suited--this kind\
of thing was right in his line.\
\
He got to hanging around the widow\'92s too much and so she told him at\
last that if he didn\'92t quit using around there she would make trouble\
for him. Well, _wasn\'92t_ he mad? \'a0He said he would show who was Huck\
Finn\'92s boss. \'a0So he watched out for me one day in the spring, and\
catched me, and took me up the river about three mile in a skiff, and\
crossed over to the Illinois shore where it was woody and there warn\'92t\
no houses but an old log hut in a place where the timber was so thick\
you couldn\'92t find it if you didn\'92t know where it was.\
\
He kept me with him all the time, and I never got a chance to run off.\
We lived in that old cabin, and he always locked the door and put the\
key under his head nights. \'a0He had a gun which he had stole, I reckon,\
and we fished and hunted, and that was what we lived on. \'a0Every little\
while he locked me in and went down to the store, three miles, to the\
ferry, and traded fish and game for whisky, and fetched it home and got\
drunk and had a good time, and licked me. \'a0The widow she found out where\
I was by and by, and she sent a man over to try to get hold of me; but\
pap drove him off with the gun, and it warn\'92t long after that till I was\
used to being where I was, and liked it--all but the cowhide part.\
\
It was kind of lazy and jolly, laying off comfortable all day, smoking\
and fishing, and no books nor study. \'a0Two months or more run along, and\
my clothes got to be all rags and dirt, and I didn\'92t see how I\'92d ever\
got to like it so well at the widow\'92s, where you had to wash, and eat on\
a plate, and comb up, and go to bed and get up regular, and be forever\
bothering over a book, and have old Miss Watson pecking at you all the\
time. \'a0I didn\'92t want to go back no more. \'a0I had stopped cussing, because\
the widow didn\'92t like it; but now I took to it again because pap hadn\'92t\
no objections. \'a0It was pretty good times up in the woods there, take it\
all around.\
\
But by and by pap got too handy with his hick\'92ry, and I couldn\'92t stand\
it. I was all over welts. \'a0He got to going away so much, too, and\
locking me in. \'a0Once he locked me in and was gone three days. \'a0It was\
dreadful lonesome. \'a0I judged he had got drownded, and I wasn\'92t ever\
going to get out any more. \'a0I was scared. \'a0I made up my mind I would fix\
up some way to leave there. \'a0I had tried to get out of that cabin many\
a time, but I couldn\'92t find no way. \'a0There warn\'92t a window to it big\
enough for a dog to get through. \'a0I couldn\'92t get up the chimbly; it\
was too narrow. \'a0The door was thick, solid oak slabs. \'a0Pap was pretty\
careful not to leave a knife or anything in the cabin when he was away;\
I reckon I had hunted the place over as much as a hundred times; well, I\
was most all the time at it, because it was about the only way to put in\
the time. \'a0But this time I found something at last; I found an old rusty\
wood-saw without any handle; it was laid in between a rafter and the\
clapboards of the roof. I greased it up and went to work. \'a0There was an\
old horse-blanket nailed against the logs at the far end of the cabin\
behind the table, to keep the wind from blowing through the chinks and\
putting the candle out. \'a0I got under the table and raised the blanket,\
and went to work to saw a section of the big bottom log out--big enough\
to let me through. \'a0Well, it was a good long job, but I was getting\
towards the end of it when I heard pap\'92s gun in the woods. \'a0I got rid of\
the signs of my work, and dropped the blanket and hid my saw, and pretty\
soon pap come in.\
\
Pap warn\'92t in a good humor--so he was his natural self. \'a0He said he was\
down town, and everything was going wrong. \'a0His lawyer said he reckoned\
he would win his lawsuit and get the money if they ever got started on\
the trial; but then there was ways to put it off a long time, and Judge\
Thatcher knowed how to do it. And he said people allowed there\'92d be\
another trial to get me away from him and give me to the widow for my\
guardian, and they guessed it would win this time. \'a0This shook me up\
considerable, because I didn\'92t want to go back to the widow\'92s any more\
and be so cramped up and sivilized, as they called it. \'a0Then the old man\
got to cussing, and cussed everything and everybody he could think of,\
and then cussed them all over again to make sure he hadn\'92t skipped any,\
and after that he polished off with a kind of a general cuss all round,\
including a considerable parcel of people which he didn\'92t know the names\
of, and so called them what\'92s-his-name when he got to them, and went\
right along with his cussing.\
\
He said he would like to see the widow get me. \'a0He said he would watch\
out, and if they tried to come any such game on him he knowed of a place\
six or seven mile off to stow me in, where they might hunt till they\
dropped and they couldn\'92t find me. \'a0That made me pretty uneasy again,\
but only for a minute; I reckoned I wouldn\'92t stay on hand till he got\
that chance.\
\
The old man made me go to the skiff and fetch the things he had\
got. There was a fifty-pound sack of corn meal, and a side of bacon,\
ammunition, and a four-gallon jug of whisky, and an old book and two\
newspapers for wadding, besides some tow. \'a0I toted up a load, and went\
back and set down on the bow of the skiff to rest. \'a0I thought it all\
over, and I reckoned I would walk off with the gun and some lines, and\
take to the woods when I run away. \'a0I guessed I wouldn\'92t stay in one\
place, but just tramp right across the country, mostly night times, and\
hunt and fish to keep alive, and so get so far away that the old man nor\
the widow couldn\'92t ever find me any more. \'a0I judged I would saw out and\
leave that night if pap got drunk enough, and I reckoned he would. \'a0I\
got so full of it I didn\'92t notice how long I was staying till the old\
man hollered and asked me whether I was asleep or drownded.\
\
I got the things all up to the cabin, and then it was about dark. \'a0While\
I was cooking supper the old man took a swig or two and got sort of\
warmed up, and went to ripping again. \'a0He had been drunk over in town,\
and laid in the gutter all night, and he was a sight to look at. \'a0A body\
would a thought he was Adam--he was just all mud. \'a0Whenever his liquor\
begun to work he most always went for the govment, this time he says:\
\
\'93Call this a govment! why, just look at it and see what it\'92s like.\
Here\'92s the law a-standing ready to take a man\'92s son away from him--a\
man\'92s own son, which he has had all the trouble and all the anxiety\
and all the expense of raising. \'a0Yes, just as that man has got that\
son raised at last, and ready to go to work and begin to do suthin\'92 for\
_him_ and give him a rest, the law up and goes for him. \'a0And they call\
_that_ govment! \'a0That ain\'92t all, nuther. \'a0The law backs that old Judge\
Thatcher up and helps him to keep me out o\'92 my property. \'a0Here\'92s what\
the law does: \'a0The law takes a man worth six thousand dollars and\
up\'92ards, and jams him into an old trap of a cabin like this, and lets\
him go round in clothes that ain\'92t fitten for a hog. They call that\
govment! \'a0A man can\'92t get his rights in a govment like this. Sometimes\
I\'92ve a mighty notion to just leave the country for good and all. Yes,\
and I _told_ \'91em so; I told old Thatcher so to his face. \'a0Lots of \'91em\
heard me, and can tell what I said. \'a0Says I, for two cents I\'92d leave the\
blamed country and never come a-near it agin. \'a0Them\'92s the very words. \'a0I\
says look at my hat--if you call it a hat--but the lid raises up and the\
rest of it goes down till it\'92s below my chin, and then it ain\'92t rightly\
a hat at all, but more like my head was shoved up through a jint o\'92\
stove-pipe. \'a0Look at it, says I--such a hat for me to wear--one of the\
wealthiest men in this town if I could git my rights.\
\
\'93Oh, yes, this is a wonderful govment, wonderful. \'a0Why, looky here.\
There was a free nigger there from Ohio--a mulatter, most as white as\
a white man. \'a0He had the whitest shirt on you ever see, too, and the\
shiniest hat; and there ain\'92t a man in that town that\'92s got as fine\
clothes as what he had; and he had a gold watch and chain, and a\
silver-headed cane--the awfulest old gray-headed nabob in the State. \'a0And\
what do you think? \'a0They said he was a p\'92fessor in a college, and could\
talk all kinds of languages, and knowed everything. \'a0And that ain\'92t the\
wust. They said he could _vote_ when he was at home. \'a0Well, that let me\
out. Thinks I, what is the country a-coming to? \'a0It was \'91lection day,\
and I was just about to go and vote myself if I warn\'92t too drunk to get\
there; but when they told me there was a State in this country where\
they\'92d let that nigger vote, I drawed out. \'a0I says I\'92ll never vote agin.\
\'a0Them\'92s the very words I said; they all heard me; and the country may\
rot for all me--I\'92ll never vote agin as long as I live. \'a0And to see the\
cool way of that nigger--why, he wouldn\'92t a give me the road if I hadn\'92t\
shoved him out o\'92 the way. \'a0I says to the people, why ain\'92t this nigger\
put up at auction and sold?--that\'92s what I want to know. \'a0And what do you\
reckon they said? Why, they said he couldn\'92t be sold till he\'92d been in\
the State six months, and he hadn\'92t been there that long yet. \'a0There,\
now--that\'92s a specimen. \'a0They call that a govment that can\'92t sell a free\
nigger till he\'92s been in the State six months. \'a0Here\'92s a govment that\
calls itself a govment, and lets on to be a govment, and thinks it is a\
govment, and yet\'92s got to set stock-still for six whole months before\
it can take a hold of a prowling, thieving, infernal, white-shirted free\
nigger, and--\'94\
\
Pap was agoing on so he never noticed where his old limber legs was\
taking him to, so he went head over heels over the tub of salt pork and\
barked both shins, and the rest of his speech was all the hottest kind\
of language--mostly hove at the nigger and the govment, though he give\
the tub some, too, all along, here and there. \'a0He hopped around the\
cabin considerable, first on one leg and then on the other, holding\
first one shin and then the other one, and at last he let out with his\
left foot all of a sudden and fetched the tub a rattling kick. \'a0But it\
warn\'92t good judgment, because that was the boot that had a couple of his\
toes leaking out of the front end of it; so now he raised a howl that\
fairly made a body\'92s hair raise, and down he went in the dirt, and\
rolled there, and held his toes; and the cussing he done then laid over\
anything he had ever done previous. \'a0He said so his own self afterwards.\
\'a0He had heard old Sowberry Hagan in his best days, and he said it laid\
over him, too; but I reckon that was sort of piling it on, maybe.\
\
After supper pap took the jug, and said he had enough whisky there\
for two drunks and one delirium tremens. \'a0That was always his word. \'a0I\
judged he would be blind drunk in about an hour, and then I would steal\
the key, or saw myself out, one or t\'92other. \'a0He drank and drank, and\
tumbled down on his blankets by and by; but luck didn\'92t run my way.\
\'a0He didn\'92t go sound asleep, but was uneasy. \'a0He groaned and moaned and\
thrashed around this way and that for a long time. \'a0At last I got so\
sleepy I couldn\'92t keep my eyes open all I could do, and so before I\
knowed what I was about I was sound asleep, and the candle burning.\
\
I don\'92t know how long I was asleep, but all of a sudden there was an\
awful scream and I was up. \'a0There was pap looking wild, and skipping\
around every which way and yelling about snakes. \'a0He said they was\
crawling up his legs; and then he would give a jump and scream, and say\
one had bit him on the cheek--but I couldn\'92t see no snakes. \'a0He started\
and run round and round the cabin, hollering \'93Take him off! take him\
off! he\'92s biting me on the neck!\'94 \'a0I never see a man look so wild in the\
eyes. Pretty soon he was all fagged out, and fell down panting; then he\
rolled over and over wonderful fast, kicking things every which way,\
and striking and grabbing at the air with his hands, and screaming and\
saying there was devils a-hold of him. \'a0He wore out by and by, and laid\
still a while, moaning. \'a0Then he laid stiller, and didn\'92t make a sound.\
\'a0I could hear the owls and the wolves away off in the woods, and it\
seemed terrible still. \'a0He was laying over by the corner. By and by he\
raised up part way and listened, with his head to one side. \'a0He says,\
very low:\
\
\'93Tramp--tramp--tramp; that\'92s the dead; tramp--tramp--tramp; they\'92re coming\
after me; but I won\'92t go. \'a0Oh, they\'92re here! don\'92t touch me--don\'92t! hands\
off--they\'92re cold; let go. \'a0Oh, let a poor devil alone!\'94\
\
Then he went down on all fours and crawled off, begging them to let him\
alone, and he rolled himself up in his blanket and wallowed in under the\
old pine table, still a-begging; and then he went to crying. \'a0I could\
hear him through the blanket.\
\
By and by he rolled out and jumped up on his feet looking wild, and he\
see me and went for me. \'a0He chased me round and round the place with a\
clasp-knife, calling me the Angel of Death, and saying he would kill me,\
and then I couldn\'92t come for him no more. \'a0I begged, and told him I\
was only Huck; but he laughed _such_ a screechy laugh, and roared and\
cussed, and kept on chasing me up. \'a0Once when I turned short and\
dodged under his arm he made a grab and got me by the jacket between my\
shoulders, and I thought I was gone; but I slid out of the jacket quick\
as lightning, and saved myself. Pretty soon he was all tired out, and\
dropped down with his back against the door, and said he would rest a\
minute and then kill me. He put his knife under him, and said he would\
sleep and get strong, and then he would see who was who.\
\
So he dozed off pretty soon. \'a0By and by I got the old split-bottom chair\
and clumb up as easy as I could, not to make any noise, and got down the\
gun. \'a0I slipped the ramrod down it to make sure it was loaded, then I\
laid it across the turnip barrel, pointing towards pap, and set down\
behind it to wait for him to stir. \'a0And how slow and still the time did\
drag along.\
\
\
\
\
CHAPTER VII.\
\
\'93GIT up! \'a0What you \'91bout?\'94\
\
I opened my eyes and looked around, trying to make out where I was. \'a0It\
was after sun-up, and I had been sound asleep. \'a0Pap was standing over me\
looking sour and sick, too. \'a0He says:\
\
\'93What you doin\'92 with this gun?\'94\
\
I judged he didn\'92t know nothing about what he had been doing, so I says:\
\
\'93Somebody tried to get in, so I was laying for him.\'94\
\
\'93Why didn\'92t you roust me out?\'94\
\
\'93Well, I tried to, but I couldn\'92t; I couldn\'92t budge you.\'94\
\
\'93Well, all right. \'a0Don\'92t stand there palavering all day, but out with\
you and see if there\'92s a fish on the lines for breakfast. \'a0I\'92ll be along\
in a minute.\'94\
\
He unlocked the door, and I cleared out up the river-bank. \'a0I noticed\
some pieces of limbs and such things floating down, and a sprinkling of\
bark; so I knowed the river had begun to rise. \'a0I reckoned I would have\
great times now if I was over at the town. \'a0The June rise used to be\
always luck for me; because as soon as that rise begins here comes\
cordwood floating down, and pieces of log rafts--sometimes a dozen logs\
together; so all you have to do is to catch them and sell them to the\
wood-yards and the sawmill.\
\
I went along up the bank with one eye out for pap and t\'92other one out\
for what the rise might fetch along. \'a0Well, all at once here comes a\
canoe; just a beauty, too, about thirteen or fourteen foot long, riding\
high like a duck. \'a0I shot head-first off of the bank like a frog,\
clothes and all on, and struck out for the canoe. \'a0I just expected\
there\'92d be somebody laying down in it, because people often done that\
to fool folks, and when a chap had pulled a skiff out most to it they\'92d\
raise up and laugh at him. \'a0But it warn\'92t so this time. \'a0It was a\
drift-canoe sure enough, and I clumb in and paddled her ashore. \'a0Thinks\
I, the old man will be glad when he sees this--she\'92s worth ten dollars.\
\'a0But when I got to shore pap wasn\'92t in sight yet, and as I was running\
her into a little creek like a gully, all hung over with vines and\
willows, I struck another idea: \'a0I judged I\'92d hide her good, and then,\
\'91stead of taking to the woods when I run off, I\'92d go down the river\
about fifty mile and camp in one place for good, and not have such a\
rough time tramping on foot.\
\
It was pretty close to the shanty, and I thought I heard the old man\
coming all the time; but I got her hid; and then I out and looked around\
a bunch of willows, and there was the old man down the path a piece just\
drawing a bead on a bird with his gun. \'a0So he hadn\'92t seen anything.\
\
When he got along I was hard at it taking up a \'93trot\'94 line. \'a0He abused\
me a little for being so slow; but I told him I fell in the river, and\
that was what made me so long. \'a0I knowed he would see I was wet, and\
then he would be asking questions. \'a0We got five catfish off the lines\
and went home.\
\
While we laid off after breakfast to sleep up, both of us being about\
wore out, I got to thinking that if I could fix up some way to keep pap\
and the widow from trying to follow me, it would be a certainer thing\
than trusting to luck to get far enough off before they missed me; you\
see, all kinds of things might happen. \'a0Well, I didn\'92t see no way for a\
while, but by and by pap raised up a minute to drink another barrel of\
water, and he says:\
\
\'93Another time a man comes a-prowling round here you roust me out, you\
hear? That man warn\'92t here for no good. \'a0I\'92d a shot him. \'a0Next time you\
roust me out, you hear?\'94\
\
Then he dropped down and went to sleep again; but what he had been\
saying give me the very idea I wanted. \'a0I says to myself, I can fix it\
now so nobody won\'92t think of following me.\
\
About twelve o\'92clock we turned out and went along up the bank. \'a0The\
river was coming up pretty fast, and lots of driftwood going by on the\
rise. By and by along comes part of a log raft--nine logs fast together.\
\'a0We went out with the skiff and towed it ashore. \'a0Then we had dinner.\
Anybody but pap would a waited and seen the day through, so as to catch\
more stuff; but that warn\'92t pap\'92s style. \'a0Nine logs was enough for one\
time; he must shove right over to town and sell. \'a0So he locked me in and\
took the skiff, and started off towing the raft about half-past three.\
\'a0I judged he wouldn\'92t come back that night. \'a0I waited till I reckoned he\
had got a good start; then I out with my saw, and went to work on that\
log again. \'a0Before he was t\'92other side of the river I was out of the\
hole; him and his raft was just a speck on the water away off yonder.\
\
I took the sack of corn meal and took it to where the canoe was hid, and\
shoved the vines and branches apart and put it in; then I done the same\
with the side of bacon; then the whisky-jug. \'a0I took all the coffee and\
sugar there was, and all the ammunition; I took the wadding; I took the\
bucket and gourd; I took a dipper and a tin cup, and my old saw and two\
blankets, and the skillet and the coffee-pot. \'a0I took fish-lines and\
matches and other things--everything that was worth a cent. \'a0I cleaned\
out the place. \'a0I wanted an axe, but there wasn\'92t any, only the one out\
at the woodpile, and I knowed why I was going to leave that. \'a0I fetched\
out the gun, and now I was done.\
\
I had wore the ground a good deal crawling out of the hole and dragging\
out so many things. \'a0So I fixed that as good as I could from the outside\
by scattering dust on the place, which covered up the smoothness and the\
sawdust. \'a0Then I fixed the piece of log back into its place, and put two\
rocks under it and one against it to hold it there, for it was bent up\
at that place and didn\'92t quite touch ground. \'a0If you stood four or five\
foot away and didn\'92t know it was sawed, you wouldn\'92t never notice\
it; and besides, this was the back of the cabin, and it warn\'92t likely\
anybody would go fooling around there.\
\
It was all grass clear to the canoe, so I hadn\'92t left a track. \'a0I\
followed around to see. \'a0I stood on the bank and looked out over the\
river. \'a0All safe. \'a0So I took the gun and went up a piece into the woods,\
and was hunting around for some birds when I see a wild pig; hogs soon\
went wild in them bottoms after they had got away from the prairie\
farms. I shot this fellow and took him into camp.\
\
I took the axe and smashed in the door. \'a0I beat it and hacked it\
considerable a-doing it. \'a0I fetched the pig in, and took him back nearly\
to the table and hacked into his throat with the axe, and laid him down\
on the ground to bleed; I say ground because it was ground--hard packed,\
and no boards. \'a0Well, next I took an old sack and put a lot of big rocks\
in it--all I could drag--and I started it from the pig, and dragged it to\
the door and through the woods down to the river and dumped it in, and\
down it sunk, out of sight. \'a0You could easy see that something had been\
dragged over the ground. \'a0I did wish Tom Sawyer was there; I knowed he\
would take an interest in this kind of business, and throw in the fancy\
touches. \'a0Nobody could spread himself like Tom Sawyer in such a thing as\
that.\
\
Well, last I pulled out some of my hair, and blooded the axe good, and\
stuck it on the back side, and slung the axe in the corner. \'a0Then I\
took up the pig and held him to my breast with my jacket (so he couldn\'92t\
drip) till I got a good piece below the house and then dumped him into\
the river. \'a0Now I thought of something else. \'a0So I went and got the bag\
of meal and my old saw out of the canoe, and fetched them to the house.\
\'a0I took the bag to where it used to stand, and ripped a hole in the\
bottom of it with the saw, for there warn\'92t no knives and forks on the\
place--pap done everything with his clasp-knife about the cooking. \'a0Then\
I carried the sack about a hundred yards across the grass and through\
the willows east of the house, to a shallow lake that was five mile wide\
and full of rushes--and ducks too, you might say, in the season. \'a0There\
was a slough or a creek leading out of it on the other side that went\
miles away, I don\'92t know where, but it didn\'92t go to the river. \'a0The meal\
sifted out and made a little track all the way to the lake. \'a0I dropped\
pap\'92s whetstone there too, so as to look like it had been done by\
accident. Then I tied up the rip in the meal sack with a string, so it\
wouldn\'92t leak no more, and took it and my saw to the canoe again.\
\
It was about dark now; so I dropped the canoe down the river under some\
willows that hung over the bank, and waited for the moon to rise. \'a0I\
made fast to a willow; then I took a bite to eat, and by and by laid\
down in the canoe to smoke a pipe and lay out a plan. \'a0I says to myself,\
they\'92ll follow the track of that sackful of rocks to the shore and then\
drag the river for me. \'a0And they\'92ll follow that meal track to the lake\
and go browsing down the creek that leads out of it to find the robbers\
that killed me and took the things. \'a0They won\'92t ever hunt the river for\
anything but my dead carcass. They\'92ll soon get tired of that, and won\'92t\
bother no more about me. \'a0All right; I can stop anywhere I want to.\
Jackson\'92s Island is good enough for me; I know that island pretty well,\
and nobody ever comes there. \'a0And then I can paddle over to town nights,\
and slink around and pick up things I want. Jackson\'92s Island\'92s the\
place.\
\
I was pretty tired, and the first thing I knowed I was asleep. \'a0When\
I woke up I didn\'92t know where I was for a minute. \'a0I set up and looked\
around, a little scared. \'a0Then I remembered. \'a0The river looked miles and\
miles across. \'a0The moon was so bright I could a counted the drift logs\
that went a-slipping along, black and still, hundreds of yards out from\
shore. Everything was dead quiet, and it looked late, and _smelt_ late.\
You know what I mean--I don\'92t know the words to put it in.\
\
I took a good gap and a stretch, and was just going to unhitch and start\
when I heard a sound away over the water. \'a0I listened. \'a0Pretty soon I\
made it out. \'a0It was that dull kind of a regular sound that comes from\
oars working in rowlocks when it\'92s a still night. \'a0I peeped out through\
the willow branches, and there it was--a skiff, away across the water.\
\'a0I couldn\'92t tell how many was in it. \'a0It kept a-coming, and when it was\
abreast of me I see there warn\'92t but one man in it. \'a0Think\'92s I, maybe\
it\'92s pap, though I warn\'92t expecting him. \'a0He dropped below me with the\
current, and by and by he came a-swinging up shore in the easy water,\
and he went by so close I could a reached out the gun and touched him.\
\'a0Well, it _was_ pap, sure enough--and sober, too, by the way he laid his\
oars.\
\
I didn\'92t lose no time. \'a0The next minute I was a-spinning down stream\
soft but quick in the shade of the bank. \'a0I made two mile and a half,\
and then struck out a quarter of a mile or more towards the middle of\
the river, because pretty soon I would be passing the ferry landing, and\
people might see me and hail me. \'a0I got out amongst the driftwood, and\
then laid down in the bottom of the canoe and let her float.\
\
\'a0I laid there, and had a good rest and a smoke out of my pipe, looking\
away into the sky; not a cloud in it. \'a0The sky looks ever so deep when\
you lay down on your back in the moonshine; I never knowed it before.\
\'a0And how far a body can hear on the water such nights! \'a0I heard people\
talking at the ferry landing. I heard what they said, too--every word\
of it. \'a0One man said it was getting towards the long days and the short\
nights now. \'a0T\'92other one said _this_ warn\'92t one of the short ones, he\
reckoned--and then they laughed, and he said it over again, and they\
laughed again; then they waked up another fellow and told him, and\
laughed, but he didn\'92t laugh; he ripped out something brisk, and said\
let him alone. \'a0The first fellow said he \'91lowed to tell it to his\
old woman--she would think it was pretty good; but he said that warn\'92t\
nothing to some things he had said in his time. I heard one man say it\
was nearly three o\'92clock, and he hoped daylight wouldn\'92t wait more than\
about a week longer. \'a0After that the talk got further and further away,\
and I couldn\'92t make out the words any more; but I could hear the mumble,\
and now and then a laugh, too, but it seemed a long ways off.\
\
I was away below the ferry now. \'a0I rose up, and there was Jackson\'92s\
Island, about two mile and a half down stream, heavy timbered and\
standing up out of the middle of the river, big and dark and solid, like\
a steamboat without any lights. \'a0There warn\'92t any signs of the bar at\
the head--it was all under water now.\
\
It didn\'92t take me long to get there. \'a0I shot past the head at a ripping\
rate, the current was so swift, and then I got into the dead water and\
landed on the side towards the Illinois shore. \'a0I run the canoe into\
a deep dent in the bank that I knowed about; I had to part the willow\
branches to get in; and when I made fast nobody could a seen the canoe\
from the outside.\
\
I went up and set down on a log at the head of the island, and looked\
out on the big river and the black driftwood and away over to the town,\
three mile away, where there was three or four lights twinkling. \'a0A\
monstrous big lumber-raft was about a mile up stream, coming along down,\
with a lantern in the middle of it. \'a0I watched it come creeping down,\
and when it was most abreast of where I stood I heard a man say, \'93Stern\
oars, there! heave her head to stabboard!\'94 \'a0I heard that just as plain\
as if the man was by my side.\
\
There was a little gray in the sky now; so I stepped into the woods, and\
laid down for a nap before breakfast.\
\
\
\
\
CHAPTER VIII.\
\
THE sun was up so high when I waked that I judged it was after eight\
o\'92clock. \'a0I laid there in the grass and the cool shade thinking about\
things, and feeling rested and ruther comfortable and satisfied. \'a0I\
could see the sun out at one or two holes, but mostly it was big trees\
all about, and gloomy in there amongst them. \'a0There was freckled places\
on the ground where the light sifted down through the leaves, and the\
freckled places swapped about a little, showing there was a little\
breeze up there. \'a0A couple of squirrels set on a limb and jabbered at me\
very friendly.\
\
I was powerful lazy and comfortable--didn\'92t want to get up and cook\
breakfast. \'a0Well, I was dozing off again when I thinks I hears a deep\
sound of \'93boom!\'94 away up the river. \'a0I rouses up, and rests on my elbow\
and listens; pretty soon I hears it again. \'a0I hopped up, and went and\
looked out at a hole in the leaves, and I see a bunch of smoke laying\
on the water a long ways up--about abreast the ferry. \'a0And there was the\
ferryboat full of people floating along down. \'a0I knowed what was the\
matter now.  \'93Boom!\'94 I see the white smoke squirt out of the ferryboat\'92s\
side. \'a0You see, they was firing cannon over the water, trying to make my\
carcass come to the top.\
\
I was pretty hungry, but it warn\'92t going to do for me to start a fire,\
because they might see the smoke. \'a0So I set there and watched the\
cannon-smoke and listened to the boom. \'a0The river was a mile wide there,\
and it always looks pretty on a summer morning--so I was having a good\
enough time seeing them hunt for my remainders if I only had a bite to\
eat. Well, then I happened to think how they always put quicksilver in\
loaves of bread and float them off, because they always go right to the\
drownded carcass and stop there. \'a0So, says I, I\'92ll keep a lookout, and\
if any of them\'92s floating around after me I\'92ll give them a show. \'a0I\
changed to the Illinois edge of the island to see what luck I could\
have, and I warn\'92t disappointed. \'a0A big double loaf come along, and I\
most got it with a long stick, but my foot slipped and she floated out\
further. \'a0Of course I was where the current set in the closest to the\
shore--I knowed enough for that. \'a0But by and by along comes another one,\
and this time I won. \'a0I took out the plug and shook out the little dab\
of quicksilver, and set my teeth in. \'a0It was \'93baker\'92s bread\'94--what the\
quality eat; none of your low-down corn-pone.\
\
I got a good place amongst the leaves, and set there on a log, munching\
the bread and watching the ferry-boat, and very well satisfied. \'a0And\
then something struck me. \'a0I says, now I reckon the widow or the parson\
or somebody prayed that this bread would find me, and here it has gone\
and done it. \'a0So there ain\'92t no doubt but there is something in that\
thing--that is, there\'92s something in it when a body like the widow or the\
parson prays, but it don\'92t work for me, and I reckon it don\'92t work for\
only just the right kind.\
\
I lit a pipe and had a good long smoke, and went on watching. \'a0The\
ferryboat was floating with the current, and I allowed I\'92d have a chance\
to see who was aboard when she come along, because she would come in\
close, where the bread did. \'a0When she\'92d got pretty well along down\
towards me, I put out my pipe and went to where I fished out the bread,\
and laid down behind a log on the bank in a little open place. \'a0Where\
the log forked I could peep through.\
\
By and by she come along, and she drifted in so close that they could\
a run out a plank and walked ashore. \'a0Most everybody was on the boat.\
\'a0Pap, and Judge Thatcher, and Bessie Thatcher, and Jo Harper, and Tom\
Sawyer, and his old Aunt Polly, and Sid and Mary, and plenty more.\
\'a0Everybody was talking about the murder, but the captain broke in and\
says:\
\
\'93Look sharp, now; the current sets in the closest here, and maybe he\'92s\
washed ashore and got tangled amongst the brush at the water\'92s edge. \'a0I\
hope so, anyway.\'94\
\
I didn\'92t hope so. \'a0They all crowded up and leaned over the rails, nearly\
in my face, and kept still, watching with all their might. \'a0I could see\
them first-rate, but they couldn\'92t see me. \'a0Then the captain sung out:\
\
\'93Stand away!\'94 and the cannon let off such a blast right before me that\
it made me deef with the noise and pretty near blind with the smoke, and\
I judged I was gone. \'a0If they\'92d a had some bullets in, I reckon they\'92d\
a got the corpse they was after. \'a0Well, I see I warn\'92t hurt, thanks to\
goodness. The boat floated on and went out of sight around the shoulder\
of the island. \'a0I could hear the booming now and then, further and\
further off, and by and by, after an hour, I didn\'92t hear it no more.\
\'a0The island was three mile long. \'a0I judged they had got to the foot, and\
was giving it up. \'a0But they didn\'92t yet a while. \'a0They turned around\
the foot of the island and started up the channel on the Missouri side,\
under steam, and booming once in a while as they went. \'a0I crossed over\
to that side and watched them. When they got abreast the head of the\
island they quit shooting and dropped over to the Missouri shore and\
went home to the town.\
\
I knowed I was all right now. \'a0Nobody else would come a-hunting after\
me. I got my traps out of the canoe and made me a nice camp in the thick\
woods. \'a0I made a kind of a tent out of my blankets to put my things\
under so the rain couldn\'92t get at them. \'a0I catched a catfish and haggled\
him open with my saw, and towards sundown I started my camp fire and had\
supper. \'a0Then I set out a line to catch some fish for breakfast.\
\
When it was dark I set by my camp fire smoking, and feeling pretty well\
satisfied; but by and by it got sort of lonesome, and so I went and set\
on the bank and listened to the current swashing along, and counted the\
stars and drift logs and rafts that come down, and then went to bed;\
there ain\'92t no better way to put in time when you are lonesome; you\
can\'92t stay so, you soon get over it.\
\
And so for three days and nights. \'a0No difference--just the same thing.\
But the next day I went exploring around down through the island. \'a0I was\
boss of it; it all belonged to me, so to say, and I wanted to know\
all about it; but mainly I wanted to put in the time. \'a0I found plenty\
strawberries, ripe and prime; and green summer grapes, and green\
razberries; and the green blackberries was just beginning to show. \'a0They\
would all come handy by and by, I judged.\
\
Well, I went fooling along in the deep woods till I judged I warn\'92t\
far from the foot of the island. \'a0I had my gun along, but I hadn\'92t shot\
nothing; it was for protection; thought I would kill some game nigh\
home. About this time I mighty near stepped on a good-sized snake,\
and it went sliding off through the grass and flowers, and I after\
it, trying to get a shot at it. I clipped along, and all of a sudden I\
bounded right on to the ashes of a camp fire that was still smoking.\
\
My heart jumped up amongst my lungs. \'a0I never waited for to look\
further, but uncocked my gun and went sneaking back on my tiptoes as\
fast as ever I could. \'a0Every now and then I stopped a second amongst the\
thick leaves and listened, but my breath come so hard I couldn\'92t hear\
nothing else. \'a0I slunk along another piece further, then listened again;\
and so on, and so on. \'a0If I see a stump, I took it for a man; if I trod\
on a stick and broke it, it made me feel like a person had cut one of my\
breaths in two and I only got half, and the short half, too.\
\
When I got to camp I warn\'92t feeling very brash, there warn\'92t much sand\
in my craw; but I says, this ain\'92t no time to be fooling around. \'a0So I\
got all my traps into my canoe again so as to have them out of sight,\
and I put out the fire and scattered the ashes around to look like an\
old last year\'92s camp, and then clumb a tree.\
\
I reckon I was up in the tree two hours; but I didn\'92t see nothing,\
I didn\'92t hear nothing--I only _thought_ I heard and seen as much as a\
thousand things. \'a0Well, I couldn\'92t stay up there forever; so at last I\
got down, but I kept in the thick woods and on the lookout all the\
time. All I could get to eat was berries and what was left over from\
breakfast.\
\
By the time it was night I was pretty hungry. \'a0So when it was good\
and dark I slid out from shore before moonrise and paddled over to the\
Illinois bank--about a quarter of a mile. \'a0I went out in the woods and\
cooked a supper, and I had about made up my mind I would stay there\
all night when I hear a _plunkety-plunk, plunkety-plunk_, and says\
to myself, horses coming; and next I hear people\'92s voices. \'a0I got\
everything into the canoe as quick as I could, and then went creeping\
through the woods to see what I could find out. \'a0I hadn\'92t got far when I\
hear a man say:\
\
\'93We better camp here if we can find a good place; the horses is about\
beat out. \'a0Let\'92s look around.\'94\
\
I didn\'92t wait, but shoved out and paddled away easy. \'a0I tied up in the\
old place, and reckoned I would sleep in the canoe.\
\
I didn\'92t sleep much. \'a0I couldn\'92t, somehow, for thinking. \'a0And every time\
I waked up I thought somebody had me by the neck. \'a0So the sleep didn\'92t\
do me no good. \'a0By and by I says to myself, I can\'92t live this way; I\'92m\
a-going to find out who it is that\'92s here on the island with me; I\'92ll\
find it out or bust. \'a0Well, I felt better right off.\
\
So I took my paddle and slid out from shore just a step or two, and\
then let the canoe drop along down amongst the shadows. \'a0The moon was\
shining, and outside of the shadows it made it most as light as day.\
\'a0I poked along well on to an hour, everything still as rocks and sound\
asleep. Well, by this time I was most down to the foot of the island. \'a0A\
little ripply, cool breeze begun to blow, and that was as good as saying\
the night was about done. \'a0I give her a turn with the paddle and brung\
her nose to shore; then I got my gun and slipped out and into the edge\
of the woods. \'a0I sat down there on a log, and looked out through the\
leaves. \'a0I see the moon go off watch, and the darkness begin to blanket\
the river. But in a little while I see a pale streak over the treetops,\
and knowed the day was coming. \'a0So I took my gun and slipped off towards\
where I had run across that camp fire, stopping every minute or two\
to listen. \'a0But I hadn\'92t no luck somehow; I couldn\'92t seem to find the\
place. \'a0But by and by, sure enough, I catched a glimpse of fire away\
through the trees. \'a0I went for it, cautious and slow. \'a0By and by I was\
close enough to have a look, and there laid a man on the ground. \'a0It\
most give me the fan-tods. He had a blanket around his head, and his\
head was nearly in the fire. \'a0I set there behind a clump of bushes, in\
about six foot of him, and kept my eyes on him steady. \'a0It was getting\
gray daylight now. \'a0Pretty soon he gapped and stretched himself and hove\
off the blanket, and it was Miss Watson\'92s Jim! \'a0I bet I was glad to see\
him. \'a0I says:\
\
\'93Hello, Jim!\'94 and skipped out.\
\
He bounced up and stared at me wild. \'a0Then he drops down on his knees,\
and puts his hands together and says:\
\
\'93Doan\'92 hurt me--don\'92t! \'a0I hain\'92t ever done no harm to a ghos\'92. \'a0I alwuz\
liked dead people, en done all I could for \'91em. \'a0You go en git in de\
river agin, whah you b\'92longs, en doan\'92 do nuffn to Ole Jim, \'91at \'91uz\
awluz yo\'92 fren\'92.\'94\
\
Well, I warn\'92t long making him understand I warn\'92t dead. \'a0I was ever so\
glad to see Jim. \'a0I warn\'92t lonesome now. \'a0I told him I warn\'92t afraid of\
_him_ telling the people where I was. \'a0I talked along, but he only set\
there and looked at me; never said nothing. \'a0Then I says:\
\
\'93It\'92s good daylight. \'a0Le\'92s get breakfast. \'a0Make up your camp fire good.\'94\
\
\'93What\'92s de use er makin\'92 up de camp fire to cook strawbries en sich\
truck? But you got a gun, hain\'92t you? \'a0Den we kin git sumfn better den\
strawbries.\'94\
\
\'93Strawberries and such truck,\'94 I says.  \'93Is that what you live on?\'94\
\
\'93I couldn\'92 git nuffn else,\'94 he says.\
\
\'93Why, how long you been on the island, Jim?\'94\
\
\'93I come heah de night arter you\'92s killed.\'94\
\
\'93What, all that time?\'94\
\
\'93Yes--indeedy.\'94\
\
\'93And ain\'92t you had nothing but that kind of rubbage to eat?\'94\
\
\'93No, sah--nuffn else.\'94\
\
\'93Well, you must be most starved, ain\'92t you?\'94\
\
\'93I reck\'92n I could eat a hoss. \'a0I think I could. How long you ben on de\
islan\'92?\'94\
\
\'93Since the night I got killed.\'94\
\
\'93No! \'a0W\'92y, what has you lived on? \'a0But you got a gun. \'a0Oh, yes, you got\
a gun. \'a0Dat\'92s good. \'a0Now you kill sumfn en I\'92ll make up de fire.\'94\
\
So we went over to where the canoe was, and while he built a fire in\
a grassy open place amongst the trees, I fetched meal and bacon and\
coffee, and coffee-pot and frying-pan, and sugar and tin cups, and the\
nigger was set back considerable, because he reckoned it was all done\
with witchcraft. I catched a good big catfish, too, and Jim cleaned him\
with his knife, and fried him.\
\
When breakfast was ready we lolled on the grass and eat it smoking hot.\
Jim laid it in with all his might, for he was most about starved. \'a0Then\
when we had got pretty well stuffed, we laid off and lazied. \'a0By and by\
Jim says:\
\
\'93But looky here, Huck, who wuz it dat \'91uz killed in dat shanty ef it\
warn\'92t you?\'94\
\
Then I told him the whole thing, and he said it was smart. \'a0He said Tom\
Sawyer couldn\'92t get up no better plan than what I had. \'a0Then I says:\
\
\'93How do you come to be here, Jim, and how\'92d you get here?\'94\
\
He looked pretty uneasy, and didn\'92t say nothing for a minute. \'a0Then he\
says:\
\
\'93Maybe I better not tell.\'94\
\
\'93Why, Jim?\'94\
\
\'93Well, dey\'92s reasons. \'a0But you wouldn\'92 tell on me ef I uz to tell you,\
would you, Huck?\'94\
\
\'93Blamed if I would, Jim.\'94\
\
\'93Well, I b\'92lieve you, Huck. \'a0I--_I run off_.\'94\
\
\'93Jim!\'94\
\
\'93But mind, you said you wouldn\'92 tell--you know you said you wouldn\'92 tell,\
Huck.\'94\
\
\'93Well, I did. \'a0I said I wouldn\'92t, and I\'92ll stick to it. \'a0Honest _injun_,\
I will. \'a0People would call me a low-down Abolitionist and despise me for\
keeping mum--but that don\'92t make no difference. \'a0I ain\'92t a-going to tell,\
and I ain\'92t a-going back there, anyways. \'a0So, now, le\'92s know all about\
it.\'94\
\
\'93Well, you see, it \'91uz dis way. \'a0Ole missus--dat\'92s Miss Watson--she pecks\
on me all de time, en treats me pooty rough, but she awluz said she\
wouldn\'92 sell me down to Orleans. \'a0But I noticed dey wuz a nigger trader\
roun\'92 de place considable lately, en I begin to git oneasy. \'a0Well, one\
night I creeps to de do\'92 pooty late, en de do\'92 warn\'92t quite shet, en I\
hear old missus tell de widder she gwyne to sell me down to Orleans, but\
she didn\'92 want to, but she could git eight hund\'92d dollars for me, en it\
\'91uz sich a big stack o\'92 money she couldn\'92 resis\'92. \'a0De widder she try to\
git her to say she wouldn\'92 do it, but I never waited to hear de res\'92. \'a0I\
lit out mighty quick, I tell you.\
\
\'93I tuck out en shin down de hill, en \'91spec to steal a skift \'91long de\
sho\'92 som\'92ers \'91bove de town, but dey wuz people a-stirring yit, so I hid\
in de ole tumble-down cooper-shop on de bank to wait for everybody to\
go \'91way. Well, I wuz dah all night. \'a0Dey wuz somebody roun\'92 all de time.\
 \'91Long \'91bout six in de mawnin\'92 skifts begin to go by, en \'91bout eight er\
nine every skift dat went \'91long wuz talkin\'92 \'91bout how yo\'92 pap come over\
to de town en say you\'92s killed. \'a0Dese las\'92 skifts wuz full o\'92 ladies en\
genlmen a-goin\'92 over for to see de place. \'a0Sometimes dey\'92d pull up at\
de sho\'92 en take a res\'92 b\'92fo\'92 dey started acrost, so by de talk I got to\
know all \'91bout de killin\'92. \'a0I \'91uz powerful sorry you\'92s killed, Huck, but\
I ain\'92t no mo\'92 now.\
\
\'93I laid dah under de shavin\'92s all day. \'a0I \'91uz hungry, but I warn\'92t\
afeard; bekase I knowed ole missus en de widder wuz goin\'92 to start to\
de camp-meet\'92n\'92 right arter breakfas\'92 en be gone all day, en dey knows\
I goes off wid de cattle \'91bout daylight, so dey wouldn\'92 \'91spec to see me\
roun\'92 de place, en so dey wouldn\'92 miss me tell arter dark in de evenin\'92.\
De yuther servants wouldn\'92 miss me, kase dey\'92d shin out en take holiday\
soon as de ole folks \'91uz out\'92n de way.\
\
\'93Well, when it come dark I tuck out up de river road, en went \'91bout two\
mile er more to whah dey warn\'92t no houses. \'a0I\'92d made up my mine \'91bout\
what I\'92s agwyne to do. \'a0You see, ef I kep\'92 on tryin\'92 to git away afoot,\
de dogs \'91ud track me; ef I stole a skift to cross over, dey\'92d miss dat\
skift, you see, en dey\'92d know \'91bout whah I\'92d lan\'92 on de yuther side, en\
whah to pick up my track. \'a0So I says, a raff is what I\'92s arter; it doan\'92\
_make_ no track.\
\
\'93I see a light a-comin\'92 roun\'92 de p\'92int bymeby, so I wade\'92 in en shove\'92\
a log ahead o\'92 me en swum more\'92n half way acrost de river, en got in\
\'91mongst de drift-wood, en kep\'92 my head down low, en kinder swum agin de\
current tell de raff come along. \'a0Den I swum to de stern uv it en tuck\
a-holt. \'a0It clouded up en \'91uz pooty dark for a little while. \'a0So I clumb\
up en laid down on de planks. \'a0De men \'91uz all \'91way yonder in de middle,\
whah de lantern wuz. \'a0De river wuz a-risin\'92, en dey wuz a good current;\
so I reck\'92n\'92d \'91at by fo\'92 in de mawnin\'92 I\'92d be twenty-five mile down de\
river, en den I\'92d slip in jis b\'92fo\'92 daylight en swim asho\'92, en take to\
de woods on de Illinois side.\
\
\'93But I didn\'92 have no luck. \'a0When we \'91uz mos\'92 down to de head er de\
islan\'92 a man begin to come aft wid de lantern, I see it warn\'92t no use\
fer to wait, so I slid overboard en struck out fer de islan\'92. \'a0Well, I\
had a notion I could lan\'92 mos\'92 anywhers, but I couldn\'92t--bank too bluff.\
\'a0I \'91uz mos\'92 to de foot er de islan\'92 b\'92fo\'92 I found\'92 a good place. \'a0I went\
into de woods en jedged I wouldn\'92 fool wid raffs no mo\'92, long as dey\
move de lantern roun\'92 so. \'a0I had my pipe en a plug er dog-leg, en some\
matches in my cap, en dey warn\'92t wet, so I \'91uz all right.\'94\
\
\'93And so you ain\'92t had no meat nor bread to eat all this time? \'a0Why\
didn\'92t you get mud-turkles?\'94\
\
\'93How you gwyne to git \'91m? \'a0You can\'92t slip up on um en grab um; en how\'92s\
a body gwyne to hit um wid a rock? \'a0How could a body do it in de night?\
\'a0En I warn\'92t gwyne to show mysef on de bank in de daytime.\'94\
\
\'93Well, that\'92s so. \'a0You\'92ve had to keep in the woods all the time, of\
course. Did you hear \'91em shooting the cannon?\'94\
\
\'93Oh, yes. \'a0I knowed dey was arter you. \'a0I see um go by heah--watched um\
thoo de bushes.\'94\
\
Some young birds come along, flying a yard or two at a time and\
lighting. Jim said it was a sign it was going to rain. \'a0He said it was\
a sign when young chickens flew that way, and so he reckoned it was the\
same way when young birds done it. \'a0I was going to catch some of them,\
but Jim wouldn\'92t let me. \'a0He said it was death. \'a0He said his father laid\
mighty sick once, and some of them catched a bird, and his old granny\
said his father would die, and he did.\
\
And Jim said you mustn\'92t count the things you are going to cook for\
dinner, because that would bring bad luck. \'a0The same if you shook the\
table-cloth after sundown. \'a0And he said if a man owned a beehive\
and that man died, the bees must be told about it before sun-up next\
morning, or else the bees would all weaken down and quit work and die.\
\'a0Jim said bees wouldn\'92t sting idiots; but I didn\'92t believe that, because\
I had tried them lots of times myself, and they wouldn\'92t sting me.\
\
I had heard about some of these things before, but not all of them. \'a0Jim\
knowed all kinds of signs. \'a0He said he knowed most everything. \'a0I said\
it looked to me like all the signs was about bad luck, and so I asked\
him if there warn\'92t any good-luck signs. \'a0He says:\
\
\'93Mighty few--an\'92 _dey_ ain\'92t no use to a body. \'a0What you want to know\
when good luck\'92s a-comin\'92 for? \'a0Want to keep it off?\'94 \'a0And he said:  \'93Ef\
you\'92s got hairy arms en a hairy breas\'92, it\'92s a sign dat you\'92s agwyne\
to be rich. Well, dey\'92s some use in a sign like dat, \'91kase it\'92s so fur\
ahead. You see, maybe you\'92s got to be po\'92 a long time fust, en so you\
might git discourage\'92 en kill yo\'92sef \'91f you didn\'92 know by de sign dat\
you gwyne to be rich bymeby.\'94\
\
\'93Have you got hairy arms and a hairy breast, Jim?\'94\
\
\'93What\'92s de use to ax dat question? \'a0Don\'92t you see I has?\'94\
\
\'93Well, are you rich?\'94\
\
\'93No, but I ben rich wunst, and gwyne to be rich agin. \'a0Wunst I had\
foteen dollars, but I tuck to specalat\'92n\'92, en got busted out.\'94\
\
\'93What did you speculate in, Jim?\'94\
\
\'93Well, fust I tackled stock.\'94\
\
\'93What kind of stock?\'94\
\
\'93Why, live stock--cattle, you know. \'a0I put ten dollars in a cow. \'a0But\
I ain\'92 gwyne to resk no mo\'92 money in stock. \'a0De cow up \'91n\'92 died on my\
han\'92s.\'94\
\
\'93So you lost the ten dollars.\'94\
\
\'93No, I didn\'92t lose it all. \'a0I on\'92y los\'92 \'91bout nine of it. \'a0I sole de\
hide en taller for a dollar en ten cents.\'94\
\
\'93You had five dollars and ten cents left. \'a0Did you speculate any more?\'94\
\
\'93Yes. \'a0You know that one-laigged nigger dat b\'92longs to old Misto\
Bradish? Well, he sot up a bank, en say anybody dat put in a dollar\
would git fo\'92 dollars mo\'92 at de en\'92 er de year. \'a0Well, all de niggers\
went in, but dey didn\'92t have much. \'a0I wuz de on\'92y one dat had much. \'a0So\
I stuck out for mo\'92 dan fo\'92 dollars, en I said \'91f I didn\'92 git it I\'92d\
start a bank mysef. Well, o\'92 course dat nigger want\'92 to keep me out er\
de business, bekase he says dey warn\'92t business \'91nough for two banks, so\
he say I could put in my five dollars en he pay me thirty-five at de en\'92\
er de year.\
\
\'93So I done it. \'a0Den I reck\'92n\'92d I\'92d inves\'92 de thirty-five dollars right\
off en keep things a-movin\'92. \'a0Dey wuz a nigger name\'92 Bob, dat had\
ketched a wood-flat, en his marster didn\'92 know it; en I bought it off\'92n\
him en told him to take de thirty-five dollars when de en\'92 er de\
year come; but somebody stole de wood-flat dat night, en nex day de\
one-laigged nigger say de bank\'92s busted. \'a0So dey didn\'92 none uv us git no\
money.\'94\
\
\'93What did you do with the ten cents, Jim?\'94\
\
\'93Well, I \'91uz gwyne to spen\'92 it, but I had a dream, en de dream tole me\
to give it to a nigger name\'92 Balum--Balum\'92s Ass dey call him for short;\
he\'92s one er dem chuckleheads, you know. \'a0But he\'92s lucky, dey say, en I\
see I warn\'92t lucky. \'a0De dream say let Balum inves\'92 de ten cents en he\'92d\
make a raise for me. \'a0Well, Balum he tuck de money, en when he wuz in\
church he hear de preacher say dat whoever give to de po\'92 len\'92 to de\
Lord, en boun\'92 to git his money back a hund\'92d times. \'a0So Balum he tuck\
en give de ten cents to de po\'92, en laid low to see what wuz gwyne to\
come of it.\'94\
\
\'93Well, what did come of it, Jim?\'94\
\
\'93Nuffn never come of it. \'a0I couldn\'92 manage to k\'92leck dat money no way;\
en Balum he couldn\'92. \'a0I ain\'92 gwyne to len\'92 no mo\'92 money \'91dout I see de\
security. \'a0Boun\'92 to git yo\'92 money back a hund\'92d times, de preacher says!\
Ef I could git de ten _cents_ back, I\'92d call it squah, en be glad er de\
chanst.\'94\
\
\'93Well, it\'92s all right anyway, Jim, long as you\'92re going to be rich again\
some time or other.\'94\
\
\'93Yes; en I\'92s rich now, come to look at it. \'a0I owns mysef, en I\'92s wuth\
eight hund\'92d dollars. \'a0I wisht I had de money, I wouldn\'92 want no mo\'92.\'94\
\
\
\
\
CHAPTER IX.\
\
I wanted to go and look at a place right about the middle of the island\
that I\'92d found when I was exploring; so we started and soon got to it,\
because the island was only three miles long and a quarter of a mile\
wide.\
\
This place was a tolerable long, steep hill or ridge about forty foot\
high. We had a rough time getting to the top, the sides was so steep and\
the bushes so thick. \'a0We tramped and clumb around all over it, and by\
and by found a good big cavern in the rock, most up to the top on the\
side towards Illinois. \'a0The cavern was as big as two or three rooms\
bunched together, and Jim could stand up straight in it. \'a0It was cool in\
there. Jim was for putting our traps in there right away, but I said we\
didn\'92t want to be climbing up and down there all the time.\
\
Jim said if we had the canoe hid in a good place, and had all the traps\
in the cavern, we could rush there if anybody was to come to the island,\
and they would never find us without dogs. \'a0And, besides, he said them\
little birds had said it was going to rain, and did I want the things to\
get wet?\
\
So we went back and got the canoe, and paddled up abreast the cavern,\
and lugged all the traps up there. \'a0Then we hunted up a place close by\
to hide the canoe in, amongst the thick willows. \'a0We took some fish off\
of the lines and set them again, and begun to get ready for dinner.\
\
The door of the cavern was big enough to roll a hogshead in, and on one\
side of the door the floor stuck out a little bit, and was flat and a\
good place to build a fire on. \'a0So we built it there and cooked dinner.\
\
We spread the blankets inside for a carpet, and eat our dinner in there.\
We put all the other things handy at the back of the cavern. \'a0Pretty\
soon it darkened up, and begun to thunder and lighten; so the birds was\
right about it. \'a0Directly it begun to rain, and it rained like all fury,\
too, and I never see the wind blow so. \'a0It was one of these regular\
summer storms. \'a0It would get so dark that it looked all blue-black\
outside, and lovely; and the rain would thrash along by so thick that\
the trees off a little ways looked dim and spider-webby; and here would\
come a blast of wind that would bend the trees down and turn up the\
pale underside of the leaves; and then a perfect ripper of a gust would\
follow along and set the branches to tossing their arms as if they\
was just wild; and next, when it was just about the bluest and\
blackest--_FST_! it was as bright as glory, and you\'92d have a little\
glimpse of tree-tops a-plunging about away off yonder in the storm,\
hundreds of yards further than you could see before; dark as sin again\
in a second, and now you\'92d hear the thunder let go with an awful crash,\
and then go rumbling, grumbling, tumbling, down the sky towards the\
under side of the world, like rolling empty barrels down stairs--where\
it\'92s long stairs and they bounce a good deal, you know.\
\
\'93Jim, this is nice,\'94 I says.  \'93I wouldn\'92t want to be nowhere else but\
here. Pass me along another hunk of fish and some hot corn-bread.\'94\
\
\'93Well, you wouldn\'92t a ben here \'91f it hadn\'92t a ben for Jim. \'a0You\'92d a ben\
down dah in de woods widout any dinner, en gittn\'92 mos\'92 drownded, too;\
dat you would, honey. \'a0Chickens knows when it\'92s gwyne to rain, en so do\
de birds, chile.\'94\
\
The river went on raising and raising for ten or twelve days, till at\
last it was over the banks. \'a0The water was three or four foot deep on\
the island in the low places and on the Illinois bottom. \'a0On that side\
it was a good many miles wide, but on the Missouri side it was the same\
old distance across--a half a mile--because the Missouri shore was just a\
wall of high bluffs.\
\
Daytimes we paddled all over the island in the canoe, It was mighty cool\
and shady in the deep woods, even if the sun was blazing outside. \'a0We\
went winding in and out amongst the trees, and sometimes the vines hung\
so thick we had to back away and go some other way. \'a0Well, on every old\
broken-down tree you could see rabbits and snakes and such things; and\
when the island had been overflowed a day or two they got so tame, on\
account of being hungry, that you could paddle right up and put your\
hand on them if you wanted to; but not the snakes and turtles--they would\
slide off in the water. \'a0The ridge our cavern was in was full of them.\
We could a had pets enough if we\'92d wanted them.\
\
One night we catched a little section of a lumber raft--nice pine planks.\
It was twelve foot wide and about fifteen or sixteen foot long, and\
the top stood above water six or seven inches--a solid, level floor. \'a0We\
could see saw-logs go by in the daylight sometimes, but we let them go;\
we didn\'92t show ourselves in daylight.\
\
Another night when we was up at the head of the island, just before\
daylight, here comes a frame-house down, on the west side. \'a0She was\
a two-story, and tilted over considerable. \'a0We paddled out and got\
aboard--clumb in at an upstairs window. \'a0But it was too dark to see yet,\
so we made the canoe fast and set in her to wait for daylight.\
\
The light begun to come before we got to the foot of the island. \'a0Then\
we looked in at the window. \'a0We could make out a bed, and a table, and\
two old chairs, and lots of things around about on the floor, and there\
was clothes hanging against the wall. \'a0There was something laying on the\
floor in the far corner that looked like a man. \'a0So Jim says:\
\
\'93Hello, you!\'94\
\
But it didn\'92t budge. \'a0So I hollered again, and then Jim says:\
\
\'93De man ain\'92t asleep--he\'92s dead. \'a0You hold still--I\'92ll go en see.\'94\
\
He went, and bent down and looked, and says:\
\
\'93It\'92s a dead man. \'a0Yes, indeedy; naked, too. \'a0He\'92s ben shot in de back.\
I reck\'92n he\'92s ben dead two er three days. \'a0Come in, Huck, but doan\'92 look\
at his face--it\'92s too gashly.\'94\
\
I didn\'92t look at him at all. \'a0Jim throwed some old rags over him, but\
he needn\'92t done it; I didn\'92t want to see him. \'a0There was heaps of old\
greasy cards scattered around over the floor, and old whisky bottles,\
and a couple of masks made out of black cloth; and all over the walls\
was the ignorantest kind of words and pictures made with charcoal.\
\'a0There was two old dirty calico dresses, and a sun-bonnet, and some\
women\'92s underclothes hanging against the wall, and some men\'92s clothing,\
too. \'a0We put the lot into the canoe--it might come good. \'a0There was a\
boy\'92s old speckled straw hat on the floor; I took that, too. \'a0And there\
was a bottle that had had milk in it, and it had a rag stopper for a\
baby to suck. \'a0We would a took the bottle, but it was broke. \'a0There was\
a seedy old chest, and an old hair trunk with the hinges broke. \'a0They\
stood open, but there warn\'92t nothing left in them that was any account.\
\'a0The way things was scattered about we reckoned the people left in a\
hurry, and warn\'92t fixed so as to carry off most of their stuff.\
\
We got an old tin lantern, and a butcher-knife without any handle, and\
a bran-new Barlow knife worth two bits in any store, and a lot of tallow\
candles, and a tin candlestick, and a gourd, and a tin cup, and a ratty\
old bedquilt off the bed, and a reticule with needles and pins and\
beeswax and buttons and thread and all such truck in it, and a hatchet\
and some nails, and a fishline as thick as my little finger with some\
monstrous hooks on it, and a roll of buckskin, and a leather dog-collar,\
and a horseshoe, and some vials of medicine that didn\'92t have no label\
on them; and just as we was leaving I found a tolerable good curry-comb,\
and Jim he found a ratty old fiddle-bow, and a wooden leg. \'a0The straps\
was broke off of it, but, barring that, it was a good enough leg, though\
it was too long for me and not long enough for Jim, and we couldn\'92t find\
the other one, though we hunted all around.\
\
And so, take it all around, we made a good haul. \'a0When we was ready to\
shove off we was a quarter of a mile below the island, and it was pretty\
broad day; so I made Jim lay down in the canoe and cover up with the\
quilt, because if he set up people could tell he was a nigger a good\
ways off. \'a0I paddled over to the Illinois shore, and drifted down most\
a half a mile doing it. \'a0I crept up the dead water under the bank, and\
hadn\'92t no accidents and didn\'92t see nobody. \'a0We got home all safe.\
\
\
\
\
CHAPTER X.\
\
AFTER breakfast I wanted to talk about the dead man and guess out how he\
come to be killed, but Jim didn\'92t want to. \'a0He said it would fetch bad\
luck; and besides, he said, he might come and ha\'92nt us; he said a man\
that warn\'92t buried was more likely to go a-ha\'92nting around than one\
that was planted and comfortable. \'a0That sounded pretty reasonable, so\
I didn\'92t say no more; but I couldn\'92t keep from studying over it and\
wishing I knowed who shot the man, and what they done it for.\
\
We rummaged the clothes we\'92d got, and found eight dollars in silver\
sewed up in the lining of an old blanket overcoat. \'a0Jim said he reckoned\
the people in that house stole the coat, because if they\'92d a knowed the\
money was there they wouldn\'92t a left it. \'a0I said I reckoned they killed\
him, too; but Jim didn\'92t want to talk about that. \'a0I says:\
\
\'93Now you think it\'92s bad luck; but what did you say when I fetched in the\
snake-skin that I found on the top of the ridge day before yesterday?\
You said it was the worst bad luck in the world to touch a snake-skin\
with my hands. \'a0Well, here\'92s your bad luck! \'a0We\'92ve raked in all this\
truck and eight dollars besides. \'a0I wish we could have some bad luck\
like this every day, Jim.\'94\
\
\'93Never you mind, honey, never you mind. \'a0Don\'92t you git too peart. \'a0It\'92s\
a-comin\'92. \'a0Mind I tell you, it\'92s a-comin\'92.\'94\
\
It did come, too. \'a0It was a Tuesday that we had that talk. \'a0Well, after\
dinner Friday we was laying around in the grass at the upper end of the\
ridge, and got out of tobacco. \'a0I went to the cavern to get some, and\
found a rattlesnake in there. \'a0I killed him, and curled him up on the\
foot of Jim\'92s blanket, ever so natural, thinking there\'92d be some fun\
when Jim found him there. \'a0Well, by night I forgot all about the snake,\
and when Jim flung himself down on the blanket while I struck a light\
the snake\'92s mate was there, and bit him.\
\
He jumped up yelling, and the first thing the light showed was the\
varmint curled up and ready for another spring. \'a0I laid him out in a\
second with a stick, and Jim grabbed pap\'92s whisky-jug and begun to pour\
it down.\
\
He was barefooted, and the snake bit him right on the heel. \'a0That all\
comes of my being such a fool as to not remember that wherever you leave\
a dead snake its mate always comes there and curls around it. \'a0Jim told\
me to chop off the snake\'92s head and throw it away, and then skin the\
body and roast a piece of it. \'a0I done it, and he eat it and said it\
would help cure him. He made me take off the rattles and tie them around\
his wrist, too. \'a0He said that that would help. \'a0Then I slid out quiet\
and throwed the snakes clear away amongst the bushes; for I warn\'92t going\
to let Jim find out it was all my fault, not if I could help it.\
\
Jim sucked and sucked at the jug, and now and then he got out of his\
head and pitched around and yelled; but every time he come to himself he\
went to sucking at the jug again. \'a0His foot swelled up pretty big, and\
so did his leg; but by and by the drunk begun to come, and so I judged\
he was all right; but I\'92d druther been bit with a snake than pap\'92s\
whisky.\
\
Jim was laid up for four days and nights. \'a0Then the swelling was all\
gone and he was around again. \'a0I made up my mind I wouldn\'92t ever take\
a-holt of a snake-skin again with my hands, now that I see what had come\
of it. Jim said he reckoned I would believe him next time. \'a0And he said\
that handling a snake-skin was such awful bad luck that maybe we hadn\'92t\
got to the end of it yet. \'a0He said he druther see the new moon over his\
left shoulder as much as a thousand times than take up a snake-skin\
in his hand. \'a0Well, I was getting to feel that way myself, though I\'92ve\
always reckoned that looking at the new moon over your left shoulder is\
one of the carelessest and foolishest things a body can do. \'a0Old Hank\
Bunker done it once, and bragged about it; and in less than two years he\
got drunk and fell off of the shot-tower, and spread himself out so\
that he was just a kind of a layer, as you may say; and they slid him\
edgeways between two barn doors for a coffin, and buried him so, so\
they say, but I didn\'92t see it. \'a0Pap told me. \'a0But anyway it all come of\
looking at the moon that way, like a fool.\
\
Well, the days went along, and the river went down between its banks\
again; and about the first thing we done was to bait one of the big\
hooks with a skinned rabbit and set it and catch a catfish that was\
as big as a man, being six foot two inches long, and weighed over two\
hundred pounds. We couldn\'92t handle him, of course; he would a flung us\
into Illinois. \'a0We just set there and watched him rip and tear around\
till he drownded. \'a0We found a brass button in his stomach and a round\
ball, and lots of rubbage. \'a0We split the ball open with the hatchet,\
and there was a spool in it. \'a0Jim said he\'92d had it there a long time, to\
coat it over so and make a ball of it. \'a0It was as big a fish as was ever\
catched in the Mississippi, I reckon. \'a0Jim said he hadn\'92t ever seen\
a bigger one. \'a0He would a been worth a good deal over at the village.\
\'a0They peddle out such a fish as that by the pound in the market-house\
there; everybody buys some of him; his meat\'92s as white as snow and makes\
a good fry.\
\
Next morning I said it was getting slow and dull, and I wanted to get a\
stirring up some way. \'a0I said I reckoned I would slip over the river and\
find out what was going on. \'a0Jim liked that notion; but he said I\
must go in the dark and look sharp. \'a0Then he studied it over and said,\
couldn\'92t I put on some of them old things and dress up like a girl?\
\'a0That was a good notion, too. \'a0So we shortened up one of the calico\
gowns, and I turned up my trouser-legs to my knees and got into it. \'a0Jim\
hitched it behind with the hooks, and it was a fair fit. \'a0I put on the\
sun-bonnet and tied it under my chin, and then for a body to look in\
and see my face was like looking down a joint of stove-pipe. \'a0Jim said\
nobody would know me, even in the daytime, hardly. \'a0I practiced around\
all day to get the hang of the things, and by and by I could do pretty\
well in them, only Jim said I didn\'92t walk like a girl; and he said\
I must quit pulling up my gown to get at my britches-pocket. \'a0I took\
notice, and done better.\
\
I started up the Illinois shore in the canoe just after dark.\
\
I started across to the town from a little below the ferry-landing, and\
the drift of the current fetched me in at the bottom of the town. \'a0I\
tied up and started along the bank. \'a0There was a light burning in a\
little shanty that hadn\'92t been lived in for a long time, and I wondered\
who had took up quarters there. \'a0I slipped up and peeped in at the\
window. \'a0There was a woman about forty year old in there knitting by\
a candle that was on a pine table. \'a0I didn\'92t know her face; she was a\
stranger, for you couldn\'92t start a face in that town that I didn\'92t know.\
\'a0Now this was lucky, because I was weakening; I was getting afraid I had\
come; people might know my voice and find me out. \'a0But if this woman had\
been in such a little town two days she could tell me all I wanted to\
know; so I knocked at the door, and made up my mind I wouldn\'92t forget I\
was a girl.\
\
\
\
\
CHAPTER XI.\
\
\'93COME in,\'94 says the woman, and I did. \'a0She says:  \'93Take a cheer.\'94\
\
I done it. \'a0She looked me all over with her little shiny eyes, and says:\
\
\'93What might your name be?\'94\
\
\'93Sarah Williams.\'94\
\
\'93Where \'91bouts do you live? \'a0In this neighborhood?\'92\
\
\'93No\'92m. \'a0In Hookerville, seven mile below. \'a0I\'92ve walked all the way and\
I\'92m all tired out.\'94\
\
\'93Hungry, too, I reckon. \'a0I\'92ll find you something.\'94\
\
\'93No\'92m, I ain\'92t hungry. \'a0I was so hungry I had to stop two miles below\
here at a farm; so I ain\'92t hungry no more. \'a0It\'92s what makes me so late.\
My mother\'92s down sick, and out of money and everything, and I come to\
tell my uncle Abner Moore. \'a0He lives at the upper end of the town, she\
says. \'a0I hain\'92t ever been here before. \'a0Do you know him?\'94\
\
\'93No; but I don\'92t know everybody yet. \'a0I haven\'92t lived here quite two\
weeks. It\'92s a considerable ways to the upper end of the town. \'a0You\
better stay here all night. \'a0Take off your bonnet.\'94\
\
\'93No,\'94 I says; \'93I\'92ll rest a while, I reckon, and go on. \'a0I ain\'92t afeared\
of the dark.\'94\
\
She said she wouldn\'92t let me go by myself, but her husband would be in\
by and by, maybe in a hour and a half, and she\'92d send him along with me.\
Then she got to talking about her husband, and about her relations up\
the river, and her relations down the river, and about how much better\
off they used to was, and how they didn\'92t know but they\'92d made a mistake\
coming to our town, instead of letting well alone--and so on and so on,\
till I was afeard I had made a mistake coming to her to find out what\
was going on in the town; but by and by she dropped on to pap and the\
murder, and then I was pretty willing to let her clatter right along.\
\'a0She told about me and Tom Sawyer finding the six thousand dollars (only\
she got it ten) and all about pap and what a hard lot he was, and what\
a hard lot I was, and at last she got down to where I was murdered. \'a0I\
says:\
\
\'93Who done it? \'a0We\'92ve heard considerable about these goings on down in\
Hookerville, but we don\'92t know who \'91twas that killed Huck Finn.\'94\
\
\'93Well, I reckon there\'92s a right smart chance of people _here_ that\'92d\
like to know who killed him. \'a0Some think old Finn done it himself.\'94\
\
\'93No--is that so?\'94\
\
\'93Most everybody thought it at first. \'a0He\'92ll never know how nigh he come\
to getting lynched. \'a0But before night they changed around and judged it\
was done by a runaway nigger named Jim.\'94\
\
\'93Why _he_--\'94\
\
I stopped. \'a0I reckoned I better keep still. \'a0She run on, and never\
noticed I had put in at all:\
\
\'93The nigger run off the very night Huck Finn was killed. \'a0So there\'92s a\
reward out for him--three hundred dollars. \'a0And there\'92s a reward out for\
old Finn, too--two hundred dollars. \'a0You see, he come to town the\
morning after the murder, and told about it, and was out with \'91em on the\
ferryboat hunt, and right away after he up and left. \'a0Before night they\
wanted to lynch him, but he was gone, you see. \'a0Well, next day they\
found out the nigger was gone; they found out he hadn\'92t ben seen sence\
ten o\'92clock the night the murder was done. \'a0So then they put it on him,\
you see; and while they was full of it, next day, back comes old Finn,\
and went boo-hooing to Judge Thatcher to get money to hunt for the\
nigger all over Illinois with. The judge gave him some, and that evening\
he got drunk, and was around till after midnight with a couple of mighty\
hard-looking strangers, and then went off with them. \'a0Well, he hain\'92t\
come back sence, and they ain\'92t looking for him back till this thing\
blows over a little, for people thinks now that he killed his boy and\
fixed things so folks would think robbers done it, and then he\'92d get\
Huck\'92s money without having to bother a long time with a lawsuit.\
\'a0People do say he warn\'92t any too good to do it. \'a0Oh, he\'92s sly, I reckon.\
\'a0If he don\'92t come back for a year he\'92ll be all right. \'a0You can\'92t prove\
anything on him, you know; everything will be quieted down then, and\
he\'92ll walk in Huck\'92s money as easy as nothing.\'94\
\
\'93Yes, I reckon so, \'91m. \'a0I don\'92t see nothing in the way of it. \'a0Has\
everybody quit thinking the nigger done it?\'94\
\
\'93Oh, no, not everybody. \'a0A good many thinks he done it. \'a0But they\'92ll get\
the nigger pretty soon now, and maybe they can scare it out of him.\'94\
\
\'93Why, are they after him yet?\'94\
\
\'93Well, you\'92re innocent, ain\'92t you! \'a0Does three hundred dollars lay\
around every day for people to pick up? \'a0Some folks think the nigger\
ain\'92t far from here. \'a0I\'92m one of them--but I hain\'92t talked it around. \'a0A\
few days ago I was talking with an old couple that lives next door in\
the log shanty, and they happened to say hardly anybody ever goes to\
that island over yonder that they call Jackson\'92s Island. \'a0Don\'92t anybody\
live there? says I. No, nobody, says they. \'a0I didn\'92t say any more, but\
I done some thinking. \'a0I was pretty near certain I\'92d seen smoke over\
there, about the head of the island, a day or two before that, so I says\
to myself, like as not that nigger\'92s hiding over there; anyway, says\
I, it\'92s worth the trouble to give the place a hunt. \'a0I hain\'92t seen any\
smoke sence, so I reckon maybe he\'92s gone, if it was him; but husband\'92s\
going over to see--him and another man. \'a0He was gone up the river; but he\
got back to-day, and I told him as soon as he got here two hours ago.\'94\
\
I had got so uneasy I couldn\'92t set still. \'a0I had to do something with my\
hands; so I took up a needle off of the table and went to threading\
it. My hands shook, and I was making a bad job of it. \'a0When the woman\
stopped talking I looked up, and she was looking at me pretty curious\
and smiling a little. \'a0I put down the needle and thread, and let on to\
be interested--and I was, too--and says:\
\
\'93Three hundred dollars is a power of money. \'a0I wish my mother could get\
it. Is your husband going over there to-night?\'94\
\
\'93Oh, yes. \'a0He went up-town with the man I was telling you of, to get a\
boat and see if they could borrow another gun. \'a0They\'92ll go over after\
midnight.\'94\
\
\'93Couldn\'92t they see better if they was to wait till daytime?\'94\
\
\'93Yes. \'a0And couldn\'92t the nigger see better, too? \'a0After midnight he\'92ll\
likely be asleep, and they can slip around through the woods and hunt up\
his camp fire all the better for the dark, if he\'92s got one.\'94\
\
\'93I didn\'92t think of that.\'94\
\
The woman kept looking at me pretty curious, and I didn\'92t feel a bit\
comfortable. \'a0Pretty soon she says,\
\
\'93What did you say your name was, honey?\'94\
\
\'93M--Mary Williams.\'94\
\
Somehow it didn\'92t seem to me that I said it was Mary before, so I didn\'92t\
look up--seemed to me I said it was Sarah; so I felt sort of cornered,\
and was afeared maybe I was looking it, too. \'a0I wished the woman would\
say something more; the longer she set still the uneasier I was. \'a0But\
now she says:\
\
\'93Honey, I thought you said it was Sarah when you first come in?\'94\
\
\'93Oh, yes\'92m, I did. \'a0Sarah Mary Williams. \'a0Sarah\'92s my first name. \'a0Some\
calls me Sarah, some calls me Mary.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, that\'92s the way of it?\'94\
\
\'93Yes\'92m.\'94\
\
I was feeling better then, but I wished I was out of there, anyway. \'a0I\
couldn\'92t look up yet.\
\
Well, the woman fell to talking about how hard times was, and how poor\
they had to live, and how the rats was as free as if they owned the\
place, and so forth and so on, and then I got easy again. \'a0She was right\
about the rats. You\'92d see one stick his nose out of a hole in the corner\
every little while. \'a0She said she had to have things handy to throw at\
them when she was alone, or they wouldn\'92t give her no peace. \'a0She showed\
me a bar of lead twisted up into a knot, and said she was a good shot\
with it generly, but she\'92d wrenched her arm a day or two ago, and didn\'92t\
know whether she could throw true now. \'a0But she watched for a chance,\
and directly banged away at a rat; but she missed him wide, and said\
\'93Ouch!\'94 it hurt her arm so. \'a0Then she told me to try for the next one.\
\'a0I wanted to be getting away before the old man got back, but of course\
I didn\'92t let on. \'a0I got the thing, and the first rat that showed his\
nose I let drive, and if he\'92d a stayed where he was he\'92d a been a\
tolerable sick rat. \'a0She said that was first-rate, and she reckoned I\
would hive the next one. \'a0She went and got the lump of lead and fetched\
it back, and brought along a hank of yarn which she wanted me to help\
her with. \'a0I held up my two hands and she put the hank over them, and\
went on talking about her and her husband\'92s matters. \'a0But she broke off\
to say:\
\
\'93Keep your eye on the rats. \'a0You better have the lead in your lap,\
handy.\'94\
\
So she dropped the lump into my lap just at that moment, and I clapped\
my legs together on it and she went on talking. \'a0But only about a\
minute. Then she took off the hank and looked me straight in the face,\
and very pleasant, and says:\
\
\'93Come, now, what\'92s your real name?\'94\
\
\'93Wh--what, mum?\'94\
\
\'93What\'92s your real name? \'a0Is it Bill, or Tom, or Bob?--or what is it?\'94\
\
I reckon I shook like a leaf, and I didn\'92t know hardly what to do. \'a0But\
I says:\
\
\'93Please to don\'92t poke fun at a poor girl like me, mum. \'a0If I\'92m in the\
way here, I\'92ll--\'94\
\
\'93No, you won\'92t. \'a0Set down and stay where you are. \'a0I ain\'92t going to hurt\
you, and I ain\'92t going to tell on you, nuther. \'a0You just tell me your\
secret, and trust me. \'a0I\'92ll keep it; and, what\'92s more, I\'92ll help\
you. So\'92ll my old man if you want him to. \'a0You see, you\'92re a runaway\
\'91prentice, that\'92s all. \'a0It ain\'92t anything. \'a0There ain\'92t no harm in it.\
You\'92ve been treated bad, and you made up your mind to cut. \'a0Bless you,\
child, I wouldn\'92t tell on you. \'a0Tell me all about it now, that\'92s a good\
boy.\'94\
\
So I said it wouldn\'92t be no use to try to play it any longer, and I\
would just make a clean breast and tell her everything, but she musn\'92t\
go back on her promise. \'a0Then I told her my father and mother was dead,\
and the law had bound me out to a mean old farmer in the country thirty\
mile back from the river, and he treated me so bad I couldn\'92t stand it\
no longer; he went away to be gone a couple of days, and so I took my\
chance and stole some of his daughter\'92s old clothes and cleared out, and\
I had been three nights coming the thirty miles. \'a0I traveled nights,\
and hid daytimes and slept, and the bag of bread and meat I carried from\
home lasted me all the way, and I had a-plenty. \'a0I said I believed my\
uncle Abner Moore would take care of me, and so that was why I struck\
out for this town of Goshen.\
\
\'93Goshen, child? \'a0This ain\'92t Goshen. \'a0This is St. Petersburg. \'a0Goshen\'92s\
ten mile further up the river. \'a0Who told you this was Goshen?\'94\
\
\'93Why, a man I met at daybreak this morning, just as I was going to turn\
into the woods for my regular sleep. \'a0He told me when the roads forked I\
must take the right hand, and five mile would fetch me to Goshen.\'94\
\
\'93He was drunk, I reckon. \'a0He told you just exactly wrong.\'94\
\
\'93Well, he did act like he was drunk, but it ain\'92t no matter now. \'a0I got\
to be moving along. \'a0I\'92ll fetch Goshen before daylight.\'94\
\
\'93Hold on a minute. \'a0I\'92ll put you up a snack to eat. \'a0You might want it.\'94\
\
So she put me up a snack, and says:\
\
\'93Say, when a cow\'92s laying down, which end of her gets up first? \'a0Answer\
up prompt now--don\'92t stop to study over it. \'a0Which end gets up first?\'94\
\
\'93The hind end, mum.\'94\
\
\'93Well, then, a horse?\'94\
\
\'93The for\'92rard end, mum.\'94\
\
\'93Which side of a tree does the moss grow on?\'94\
\
\'93North side.\'94\
\
\'93If fifteen cows is browsing on a hillside, how many of them eats with\
their heads pointed the same direction?\'94\
\
\'93The whole fifteen, mum.\'94\
\
\'93Well, I reckon you _have_ lived in the country. \'a0I thought maybe you\
was trying to hocus me again. \'a0What\'92s your real name, now?\'94\
\
\'93George Peters, mum.\'94\
\
\'93Well, try to remember it, George. \'a0Don\'92t forget and tell me it\'92s\
Elexander before you go, and then get out by saying it\'92s George\
Elexander when I catch you. \'a0And don\'92t go about women in that old\
calico. \'a0You do a girl tolerable poor, but you might fool men, maybe.\
\'a0Bless you, child, when you set out to thread a needle don\'92t hold the\
thread still and fetch the needle up to it; hold the needle still and\
poke the thread at it; that\'92s the way a woman most always does, but a\
man always does t\'92other way. \'a0And when you throw at a rat or anything,\
hitch yourself up a tiptoe and fetch your hand up over your head as\
awkward as you can, and miss your rat about six or seven foot. Throw\
stiff-armed from the shoulder, like there was a pivot there for it to\
turn on, like a girl; not from the wrist and elbow, with your arm out\
to one side, like a boy. \'a0And, mind you, when a girl tries to catch\
anything in her lap she throws her knees apart; she don\'92t clap them\
together, the way you did when you catched the lump of lead. \'a0Why, I\
spotted you for a boy when you was threading the needle; and I contrived\
the other things just to make certain. \'a0Now trot along to your uncle,\
Sarah Mary Williams George Elexander Peters, and if you get into trouble\
you send word to Mrs. Judith Loftus, which is me, and I\'92ll do what I can\
to get you out of it. \'a0Keep the river road all the way, and next time\
you tramp take shoes and socks with you. The river road\'92s a rocky one,\
and your feet\'92ll be in a condition when you get to Goshen, I reckon.\'94\
\
I went up the bank about fifty yards, and then I doubled on my tracks\
and slipped back to where my canoe was, a good piece below the house. \'a0I\
jumped in, and was off in a hurry. \'a0I went up-stream far enough to\
make the head of the island, and then started across. \'a0I took off the\
sun-bonnet, for I didn\'92t want no blinders on then. \'a0When I was about the\
middle I heard the clock begin to strike, so I stops and listens; the\
sound come faint over the water but clear--eleven. \'a0When I struck the\
head of the island I never waited to blow, though I was most winded, but\
I shoved right into the timber where my old camp used to be, and started\
a good fire there on a high and dry spot.\
\
Then I jumped in the canoe and dug out for our place, a mile and a half\
below, as hard as I could go. \'a0I landed, and slopped through the timber\
and up the ridge and into the cavern. \'a0There Jim laid, sound asleep on\
the ground. \'a0I roused him out and says:\
\
\'93Git up and hump yourself, Jim! \'a0There ain\'92t a minute to lose. \'a0They\'92re\
after us!\'94\
\
Jim never asked no questions, he never said a word; but the way he\
worked for the next half an hour showed about how he was scared. \'a0By\
that time everything we had in the world was on our raft, and she was\
ready to be shoved out from the willow cove where she was hid. \'a0We\
put out the camp fire at the cavern the first thing, and didn\'92t show a\
candle outside after that.\
\
I took the canoe out from the shore a little piece, and took a look;\
but if there was a boat around I couldn\'92t see it, for stars and shadows\
ain\'92t good to see by. \'a0Then we got out the raft and slipped along down\
in the shade, past the foot of the island dead still--never saying a\
word.\
\
\
\
\
CHAPTER XII.\
\
IT must a been close on to one o\'92clock when we got below the island at\
last, and the raft did seem to go mighty slow. \'a0If a boat was to come\
along we was going to take to the canoe and break for the Illinois\
shore; and it was well a boat didn\'92t come, for we hadn\'92t ever thought to\
put the gun in the canoe, or a fishing-line, or anything to eat. \'a0We\
was in ruther too much of a sweat to think of so many things. \'a0It warn\'92t\
good judgment to put _everything_ on the raft.\
\
If the men went to the island I just expect they found the camp fire I\
built, and watched it all night for Jim to come. \'a0Anyways, they stayed\
away from us, and if my building the fire never fooled them it warn\'92t no\
fault of mine. \'a0I played it as low down on them as I could.\
\
When the first streak of day began to show we tied up to a towhead in a\
big bend on the Illinois side, and hacked off cottonwood branches with\
the hatchet, and covered up the raft with them so she looked like there\
had been a cave-in in the bank there. \'a0A tow-head is a sandbar that has\
cottonwoods on it as thick as harrow-teeth.\
\
We had mountains on the Missouri shore and heavy timber on the Illinois\
side, and the channel was down the Missouri shore at that place, so we\
warn\'92t afraid of anybody running across us. \'a0We laid there all day,\
and watched the rafts and steamboats spin down the Missouri shore, and\
up-bound steamboats fight the big river in the middle. \'a0I told Jim all\
about the time I had jabbering with that woman; and Jim said she was\
a smart one, and if she was to start after us herself she wouldn\'92t set\
down and watch a camp fire--no, sir, she\'92d fetch a dog. \'a0Well, then, I\
said, why couldn\'92t she tell her husband to fetch a dog? \'a0Jim said he\
bet she did think of it by the time the men was ready to start, and he\
believed they must a gone up-town to get a dog and so they lost all that\
time, or else we wouldn\'92t be here on a towhead sixteen or seventeen mile\
below the village--no, indeedy, we would be in that same old town again.\
\'a0So I said I didn\'92t care what was the reason they didn\'92t get us as long\
as they didn\'92t.\
\
When it was beginning to come on dark we poked our heads out of the\
cottonwood thicket, and looked up and down and across; nothing in sight;\
so Jim took up some of the top planks of the raft and built a snug\
wigwam to get under in blazing weather and rainy, and to keep the things\
dry. Jim made a floor for the wigwam, and raised it a foot or more above\
the level of the raft, so now the blankets and all the traps was out of\
reach of steamboat waves. \'a0Right in the middle of the wigwam we made a\
layer of dirt about five or six inches deep with a frame around it for\
to hold it to its place; this was to build a fire on in sloppy weather\
or chilly; the wigwam would keep it from being seen. \'a0We made an extra\
steering-oar, too, because one of the others might get broke on a snag\
or something. We fixed up a short forked stick to hang the old lantern\
on, because we must always light the lantern whenever we see a steamboat\
coming down-stream, to keep from getting run over; but we wouldn\'92t have\
to light it for up-stream boats unless we see we was in what they call\
a \'93crossing\'94; for the river was pretty high yet, very low banks being\
still a little under water; so up-bound boats didn\'92t always run the\
channel, but hunted easy water.\
\
This second night we run between seven and eight hours, with a current\
that was making over four mile an hour. \'a0We catched fish and talked,\
and we took a swim now and then to keep off sleepiness. \'a0It was kind of\
solemn, drifting down the big, still river, laying on our backs looking\
up at the stars, and we didn\'92t ever feel like talking loud, and it\
warn\'92t often that we laughed--only a little kind of a low chuckle. \'a0We\
had mighty good weather as a general thing, and nothing ever happened to\
us at all--that night, nor the next, nor the next.\
\
Every night we passed towns, some of them away up on black hillsides,\
nothing but just a shiny bed of lights; not a house could you see. \'a0The\
fifth night we passed St. Louis, and it was like the whole world lit up.\
In St. Petersburg they used to say there was twenty or thirty thousand\
people in St. Louis, but I never believed it till I see that wonderful\
spread of lights at two o\'92clock that still night. \'a0There warn\'92t a sound\
there; everybody was asleep.\
\
Every night now I used to slip ashore towards ten o\'92clock at some little\
village, and buy ten or fifteen cents\'92 worth of meal or bacon or other\
stuff to eat; and sometimes I lifted a chicken that warn\'92t roosting\
comfortable, and took him along. \'a0Pap always said, take a chicken when\
you get a chance, because if you don\'92t want him yourself you can easy\
find somebody that does, and a good deed ain\'92t ever forgot. \'a0I never see\
pap when he didn\'92t want the chicken himself, but that is what he used to\
say, anyway.\
\
Mornings before daylight I slipped into cornfields and borrowed a\
watermelon, or a mushmelon, or a punkin, or some new corn, or things of\
that kind. \'a0Pap always said it warn\'92t no harm to borrow things if you\
was meaning to pay them back some time; but the widow said it warn\'92t\
anything but a soft name for stealing, and no decent body would do it.\
\'a0Jim said he reckoned the widow was partly right and pap was partly\
right; so the best way would be for us to pick out two or three things\
from the list and say we wouldn\'92t borrow them any more--then he reckoned\
it wouldn\'92t be no harm to borrow the others. \'a0So we talked it over all\
one night, drifting along down the river, trying to make up our minds\
whether to drop the watermelons, or the cantelopes, or the mushmelons,\
or what. \'a0But towards daylight we got it all settled satisfactory, and\
concluded to drop crabapples and p\'92simmons. \'a0We warn\'92t feeling just\
right before that, but it was all comfortable now. \'a0I was glad the way\
it come out, too, because crabapples ain\'92t ever good, and the p\'92simmons\
wouldn\'92t be ripe for two or three months yet.\
\
We shot a water-fowl now and then that got up too early in the morning\
or didn\'92t go to bed early enough in the evening. \'a0Take it all round, we\
lived pretty high.\
\
The fifth night below St. Louis we had a big storm after midnight, with\
a power of thunder and lightning, and the rain poured down in a solid\
sheet. We stayed in the wigwam and let the raft take care of itself.\
When the lightning glared out we could see a big straight river ahead,\
and high, rocky bluffs on both sides. \'a0By and by says I, \'93Hel-_lo_, Jim,\
looky yonder!\'94 It was a steamboat that had killed herself on a rock.\
\'a0We was drifting straight down for her. \'a0The lightning showed her very\
distinct. \'a0She was leaning over, with part of her upper deck above\
water, and you could see every little chimbly-guy clean and clear, and a\
chair by the big bell, with an old slouch hat hanging on the back of it,\
when the flashes come.\
\
Well, it being away in the night and stormy, and all so mysterious-like,\
I felt just the way any other boy would a felt when I see that wreck\
laying there so mournful and lonesome in the middle of the river. \'a0I\
wanted to get aboard of her and slink around a little, and see what\
there was there. \'a0So I says:\
\
\'93Le\'92s land on her, Jim.\'94\
\
But Jim was dead against it at first. \'a0He says:\
\
\'93I doan\'92 want to go fool\'92n \'91long er no wrack. \'a0We\'92s doin\'92 blame\'92 well,\
en we better let blame\'92 well alone, as de good book says. \'a0Like as not\
dey\'92s a watchman on dat wrack.\'94\
\
\'93Watchman your grandmother,\'94 I says; \'93there ain\'92t nothing to watch but\
the texas and the pilot-house; and do you reckon anybody\'92s going to resk\
his life for a texas and a pilot-house such a night as this, when\
it\'92s likely to break up and wash off down the river any minute?\'94 \'a0Jim\
couldn\'92t say nothing to that, so he didn\'92t try.  \'93And besides,\'94 I says,\
\'93we might borrow something worth having out of the captain\'92s stateroom.\
\'a0Seegars, I bet you--and cost five cents apiece, solid cash. \'a0Steamboat\
captains is always rich, and get sixty dollars a month, and _they_ don\'92t\
care a cent what a thing costs, you know, long as they want it. \'a0Stick a\
candle in your pocket; I can\'92t rest, Jim, till we give her a rummaging.\
\'a0Do you reckon Tom Sawyer would ever go by this thing? \'a0Not for pie, he\
wouldn\'92t. He\'92d call it an adventure--that\'92s what he\'92d call it; and he\'92d\
land on that wreck if it was his last act. \'a0And wouldn\'92t he throw style\
into it?--wouldn\'92t he spread himself, nor nothing? \'a0Why, you\'92d think it\
was Christopher C\'92lumbus discovering Kingdom-Come. \'a0I wish Tom Sawyer\
_was_ here.\'94\
\
Jim he grumbled a little, but give in. \'a0He said we mustn\'92t talk any more\
than we could help, and then talk mighty low. \'a0The lightning showed us\
the wreck again just in time, and we fetched the stabboard derrick, and\
made fast there.\
\
The deck was high out here. \'a0We went sneaking down the slope of it to\
labboard, in the dark, towards the texas, feeling our way slow with our\
feet, and spreading our hands out to fend off the guys, for it was so\
dark we couldn\'92t see no sign of them. \'a0Pretty soon we struck the forward\
end of the skylight, and clumb on to it; and the next step fetched us in\
front of the captain\'92s door, which was open, and by Jimminy, away down\
through the texas-hall we see a light! and all in the same second we\
seem to hear low voices in yonder!\
\
Jim whispered and said he was feeling powerful sick, and told me to come\
along. \'a0I says, all right, and was going to start for the raft; but just\
then I heard a voice wail out and say:\
\
\'93Oh, please don\'92t, boys; I swear I won\'92t ever tell!\'94\
\
Another voice said, pretty loud:\
\
\'93It\'92s a lie, Jim Turner. \'a0You\'92ve acted this way before. \'a0You always want\
more\'92n your share of the truck, and you\'92ve always got it, too, because\
you\'92ve swore \'91t if you didn\'92t you\'92d tell. \'a0But this time you\'92ve said\
it jest one time too many. \'a0You\'92re the meanest, treacherousest hound in\
this country.\'94\
\
By this time Jim was gone for the raft. \'a0I was just a-biling with\
curiosity; and I says to myself, Tom Sawyer wouldn\'92t back out now,\
and so I won\'92t either; I\'92m a-going to see what\'92s going on here. \'a0So I\
dropped on my hands and knees in the little passage, and crept aft\
in the dark till there warn\'92t but one stateroom betwixt me and the\
cross-hall of the texas. \'a0Then in there I see a man stretched on the\
floor and tied hand and foot, and two men standing over him, and one\
of them had a dim lantern in his hand, and the other one had a pistol.\
\'a0This one kept pointing the pistol at the man\'92s head on the floor, and\
saying:\
\
\'93I\'92d _like_ to! \'a0And I orter, too--a mean skunk!\'94\
\
The man on the floor would shrivel up and say, \'93Oh, please don\'92t, Bill;\
I hain\'92t ever goin\'92 to tell.\'94\
\
And every time he said that the man with the lantern would laugh and\
say:\
\
\'93\'91Deed you _ain\'92t!_ \'a0You never said no truer thing \'91n that, you bet\
you.\'94 And once he said:  \'93Hear him beg! and yit if we hadn\'92t got the\
best of him and tied him he\'92d a killed us both. \'a0And what _for_? \'a0Jist\
for noth\'92n. Jist because we stood on our _rights_--that\'92s what for. \'a0But\
I lay you ain\'92t a-goin\'92 to threaten nobody any more, Jim Turner. \'a0Put\
_up_ that pistol, Bill.\'94\
\
Bill says:\
\
\'93I don\'92t want to, Jake Packard. \'a0I\'92m for killin\'92 him--and didn\'92t he kill\
old Hatfield jist the same way--and don\'92t he deserve it?\'94\
\
\'93But I don\'92t _want_ him killed, and I\'92ve got my reasons for it.\'94\
\
\'93Bless yo\'92 heart for them words, Jake Packard! \'a0I\'92ll never forgit you\
long\'92s I live!\'94 says the man on the floor, sort of blubbering.\
\
Packard didn\'92t take no notice of that, but hung up his lantern on a nail\
and started towards where I was there in the dark, and motioned Bill\
to come. \'a0I crawfished as fast as I could about two yards, but the boat\
slanted so that I couldn\'92t make very good time; so to keep from getting\
run over and catched I crawled into a stateroom on the upper side.\
\'a0The man came a-pawing along in the dark, and when Packard got to my\
stateroom, he says:\
\
\'93Here--come in here.\'94\
\
And in he come, and Bill after him. \'a0But before they got in I was up\
in the upper berth, cornered, and sorry I come. \'a0Then they stood there,\
with their hands on the ledge of the berth, and talked. \'a0I couldn\'92t see\
them, but I could tell where they was by the whisky they\'92d been having.\
\'a0I was glad I didn\'92t drink whisky; but it wouldn\'92t made much difference\
anyway, because most of the time they couldn\'92t a treed me because I\
didn\'92t breathe. \'a0I was too scared. \'a0And, besides, a body _couldn\'92t_\
breathe and hear such talk. \'a0They talked low and earnest. \'a0Bill wanted\
to kill Turner. \'a0He says:\
\
\'93He\'92s said he\'92ll tell, and he will. \'a0If we was to give both our shares\
to him _now_ it wouldn\'92t make no difference after the row and the way\
we\'92ve served him. \'a0Shore\'92s you\'92re born, he\'92ll turn State\'92s evidence; now\
you hear _me_. \'a0I\'92m for putting him out of his troubles.\'94\
\
\'93So\'92m I,\'94 says Packard, very quiet.\
\
\'93Blame it, I\'92d sorter begun to think you wasn\'92t. \'a0Well, then, that\'92s all\
right. \'a0Le\'92s go and do it.\'94\
\
\'93Hold on a minute; I hain\'92t had my say yit. \'a0You listen to me.\
Shooting\'92s good, but there\'92s quieter ways if the thing\'92s _got_ to be\
done. But what I say is this: \'a0it ain\'92t good sense to go court\'92n around\
after a halter if you can git at what you\'92re up to in some way that\'92s\
jist as good and at the same time don\'92t bring you into no resks. \'a0Ain\'92t\
that so?\'94\
\
\'93You bet it is. \'a0But how you goin\'92 to manage it this time?\'94\
\
\'93Well, my idea is this: \'a0we\'92ll rustle around and gather up whatever\
pickins we\'92ve overlooked in the staterooms, and shove for shore and hide\
the truck. Then we\'92ll wait. \'a0Now I say it ain\'92t a-goin\'92 to be more\'92n two\
hours befo\'92 this wrack breaks up and washes off down the river. \'a0See?\
He\'92ll be drownded, and won\'92t have nobody to blame for it but his own\
self. \'a0I reckon that\'92s a considerble sight better \'91n killin\'92 of him.\
\'a0I\'92m unfavorable to killin\'92 a man as long as you can git aroun\'92 it; it\
ain\'92t good sense, it ain\'92t good morals. \'a0Ain\'92t I right?\'94\
\
\'93Yes, I reck\'92n you are. \'a0But s\'92pose she _don\'92t_ break up and wash off?\'94\
\
\'93Well, we can wait the two hours anyway and see, can\'92t we?\'94\
\
\'93All right, then; come along.\'94\
\
So they started, and I lit out, all in a cold sweat, and scrambled\
forward. It was dark as pitch there; but I said, in a kind of a coarse\
whisper, \'93Jim!\'94 and he answered up, right at my elbow, with a sort of a\
moan, and I says:\
\
\'93Quick, Jim, it ain\'92t no time for fooling around and moaning; there\'92s a\
gang of murderers in yonder, and if we don\'92t hunt up their boat and set\
her drifting down the river so these fellows can\'92t get away from the\
wreck there\'92s one of \'91em going to be in a bad fix. \'a0But if we find their\
boat we can put _all_ of \'91em in a bad fix--for the sheriff \'91ll get \'91em.\
Quick--hurry! \'a0I\'92ll hunt the labboard side, you hunt the stabboard. You\
start at the raft, and--\'94\
\
\'93Oh, my lordy, lordy! \'a0_raf\'92_? \'a0Dey ain\'92 no raf\'92 no mo\'92; she done broke\
loose en gone I--en here we is!\'94\
\
\
\
\
CHAPTER XIII.\
\
WELL, I catched my breath and most fainted. \'a0Shut up on a wreck with\
such a gang as that! \'a0But it warn\'92t no time to be sentimentering. \'a0We\'92d\
_got_ to find that boat now--had to have it for ourselves. \'a0So we went\
a-quaking and shaking down the stabboard side, and slow work it was,\
too--seemed a week before we got to the stern. \'a0No sign of a boat. \'a0Jim\
said he didn\'92t believe he could go any further--so scared he hadn\'92t\
hardly any strength left, he said. \'a0But I said, come on, if we get left\
on this wreck we are in a fix, sure. \'a0So on we prowled again. \'a0We struck\
for the stern of the texas, and found it, and then scrabbled along\
forwards on the skylight, hanging on from shutter to shutter, for the\
edge of the skylight was in the water. \'a0When we got pretty close to the\
cross-hall door there was the skiff, sure enough! \'a0I could just barely\
see her. \'a0I felt ever so thankful. \'a0In another second I would a been\
aboard of her, but just then the door opened. \'a0One of the men stuck his\
head out only about a couple of foot from me, and I thought I was gone;\
but he jerked it in again, and says:\
\
\'93Heave that blame lantern out o\'92 sight, Bill!\'94\
\
He flung a bag of something into the boat, and then got in himself and\
set down. \'a0It was Packard. \'a0Then Bill _he_ come out and got in. \'a0Packard\
says, in a low voice:\
\
\'93All ready--shove off!\'94\
\
I couldn\'92t hardly hang on to the shutters, I was so weak. \'a0But Bill\
says:\
\
\'93Hold on--\'91d you go through him?\'94\
\
\'93No. \'a0Didn\'92t you?\'94\
\
\'93No. \'a0So he\'92s got his share o\'92 the cash yet.\'94\
\
\'93Well, then, come along; no use to take truck and leave money.\'94\
\
\'93Say, won\'92t he suspicion what we\'92re up to?\'94\
\
\'93Maybe he won\'92t. \'a0But we got to have it anyway. Come along.\'94\
\
So they got out and went in.\
\
The door slammed to because it was on the careened side; and in a half\
second I was in the boat, and Jim come tumbling after me. \'a0I out with my\
knife and cut the rope, and away we went!\
\
We didn\'92t touch an oar, and we didn\'92t speak nor whisper, nor hardly even\
breathe. \'a0We went gliding swift along, dead silent, past the tip of the\
paddle-box, and past the stern; then in a second or two more we was a\
hundred yards below the wreck, and the darkness soaked her up, every\
last sign of her, and we was safe, and knowed it.\
\
When we was three or four hundred yards down-stream we see the lantern\
show like a little spark at the texas door for a second, and we knowed\
by that that the rascals had missed their boat, and was beginning to\
understand that they was in just as much trouble now as Jim Turner was.\
\
Then Jim manned the oars, and we took out after our raft. \'a0Now was the\
first time that I begun to worry about the men--I reckon I hadn\'92t\
had time to before. \'a0I begun to think how dreadful it was, even for\
murderers, to be in such a fix. \'a0I says to myself, there ain\'92t no\
telling but I might come to be a murderer myself yet, and then how would\
I like it? \'a0So says I to Jim:\
\
\'93The first light we see we\'92ll land a hundred yards below it or above\
it, in a place where it\'92s a good hiding-place for you and the skiff, and\
then I\'92ll go and fix up some kind of a yarn, and get somebody to go for\
that gang and get them out of their scrape, so they can be hung when\
their time comes.\'94\
\
But that idea was a failure; for pretty soon it begun to storm again,\
and this time worse than ever. \'a0The rain poured down, and never a light\
showed; everybody in bed, I reckon. \'a0We boomed along down the river,\
watching for lights and watching for our raft. \'a0After a long time the\
rain let up, but the clouds stayed, and the lightning kept whimpering,\
and by and by a flash showed us a black thing ahead, floating, and we\
made for it.\
\
It was the raft, and mighty glad was we to get aboard of it again. \'a0We\
seen a light now away down to the right, on shore. \'a0So I said I would\
go for it. The skiff was half full of plunder which that gang had stole\
there on the wreck. \'a0We hustled it on to the raft in a pile, and I told\
Jim to float along down, and show a light when he judged he had gone\
about two mile, and keep it burning till I come; then I manned my oars\
and shoved for the light. \'a0As I got down towards it three or four more\
showed--up on a hillside. \'a0It was a village. \'a0I closed in above the shore\
light, and laid on my oars and floated. \'a0As I went by I see it was a\
lantern hanging on the jackstaff of a double-hull ferryboat. \'a0I skimmed\
around for the watchman, a-wondering whereabouts he slept; and by and\
by I found him roosting on the bitts forward, with his head down between\
his knees. \'a0I gave his shoulder two or three little shoves, and begun to\
cry.\
\
He stirred up in a kind of a startlish way; but when he see it was only\
me he took a good gap and stretch, and then he says:\
\
\'93Hello, what\'92s up? \'a0Don\'92t cry, bub. \'a0What\'92s the trouble?\'94\
\
I says:\
\
\'93Pap, and mam, and sis, and--\'94\
\
Then I broke down. \'a0He says:\
\
\'93Oh, dang it now, _don\'92t_ take on so; we all has to have our troubles,\
and this \'91n \'91ll come out all right. \'a0What\'92s the matter with \'91em?\'94\
\
\'93They\'92re--they\'92re--are you the watchman of the boat?\'94\
\
\'93Yes,\'94 he says, kind of pretty-well-satisfied like.  \'93I\'92m the captain\
and the owner and the mate and the pilot and watchman and head\
deck-hand; and sometimes I\'92m the freight and passengers. \'a0I ain\'92t as\
rich as old Jim Hornback, and I can\'92t be so blame\'92 generous and good\
to Tom, Dick, and Harry as what he is, and slam around money the way he\
does; but I\'92ve told him a many a time \'91t I wouldn\'92t trade places with\
him; for, says I, a sailor\'92s life\'92s the life for me, and I\'92m derned if\
_I\'92d_ live two mile out o\'92 town, where there ain\'92t nothing ever goin\'92\
on, not for all his spondulicks and as much more on top of it. \'a0Says I--\'94\
\
I broke in and says:\
\
\'93They\'92re in an awful peck of trouble, and--\'94\
\
\'93_Who_ is?\'94\
\
\'93Why, pap and mam and sis and Miss Hooker; and if you\'92d take your\
ferryboat and go up there--\'94\
\
\'93Up where? \'a0Where are they?\'94\
\
\'93On the wreck.\'94\
\
\'93What wreck?\'94\
\
\'93Why, there ain\'92t but one.\'94\
\
\'93What, you don\'92t mean the Walter Scott?\'94\
\
\'93Yes.\'94\
\
\'93Good land! what are they doin\'92 _there_, for gracious sakes?\'94\
\
\'93Well, they didn\'92t go there a-purpose.\'94\
\
\'93I bet they didn\'92t! \'a0Why, great goodness, there ain\'92t no chance for \'91em\
if they don\'92t git off mighty quick! \'a0Why, how in the nation did they\
ever git into such a scrape?\'94\
\
\'93Easy enough. \'a0Miss Hooker was a-visiting up there to the town--\'94\
\
\'93Yes, Booth\'92s Landing--go on.\'94\
\
\'93She was a-visiting there at Booth\'92s Landing, and just in the edge of\
the evening she started over with her nigger woman in the horse-ferry\
to stay all night at her friend\'92s house, Miss What-you-may-call-her I\
disremember her name--and they lost their steering-oar, and swung\
around and went a-floating down, stern first, about two mile, and\
saddle-baggsed on the wreck, and the ferryman and the nigger woman and\
the horses was all lost, but Miss Hooker she made a grab and got aboard\
the wreck. \'a0Well, about an hour after dark we come along down in our\
trading-scow, and it was so dark we didn\'92t notice the wreck till we was\
right on it; and so _we_ saddle-baggsed; but all of us was saved but\
Bill Whipple--and oh, he _was_ the best cretur!--I most wish \'91t it had\
been me, I do.\'94\
\
\'93My George! \'a0It\'92s the beatenest thing I ever struck. \'a0And _then_ what\
did you all do?\'94\
\
\'93Well, we hollered and took on, but it\'92s so wide there we couldn\'92t\
make nobody hear. \'a0So pap said somebody got to get ashore and get help\
somehow. I was the only one that could swim, so I made a dash for it,\
and Miss Hooker she said if I didn\'92t strike help sooner, come here and\
hunt up her uncle, and he\'92d fix the thing. \'a0I made the land about a mile\
below, and been fooling along ever since, trying to get people to do\
something, but they said, \'91What, in such a night and such a current?\
There ain\'92t no sense in it; go for the steam ferry.\'92 \'a0Now if you\'92ll go\
and--\'94\
\
\'93By Jackson, I\'92d _like_ to, and, blame it, I don\'92t know but I will; but\
who in the dingnation\'92s a-going\'92 to _pay_ for it? \'a0Do you reckon your\
pap--\'94\
\
\'93Why _that\'92s_ all right. \'a0Miss Hooker she tole me, _particular_, that\
her uncle Hornback--\'94\
\
\'93Great guns! is _he_ her uncle? \'a0Looky here, you break for that light\
over yonder-way, and turn out west when you git there, and about a\
quarter of a mile out you\'92ll come to the tavern; tell \'91em to dart you\
out to Jim Hornback\'92s, and he\'92ll foot the bill. \'a0And don\'92t you fool\
around any, because he\'92ll want to know the news. \'a0Tell him I\'92ll have\
his niece all safe before he can get to town. \'a0Hump yourself, now; I\'92m\
a-going up around the corner here to roust out my engineer.\'94\
\
I struck for the light, but as soon as he turned the corner I went back\
and got into my skiff and bailed her out, and then pulled up shore in\
the easy water about six hundred yards, and tucked myself in among\
some woodboats; for I couldn\'92t rest easy till I could see the ferryboat\
start. But take it all around, I was feeling ruther comfortable on\
accounts of taking all this trouble for that gang, for not many would\
a done it. \'a0I wished the widow knowed about it. \'a0I judged she would be\
proud of me for helping these rapscallions, because rapscallions and\
dead beats is the kind the widow and good people takes the most interest\
in.\
\
Well, before long here comes the wreck, dim and dusky, sliding along\
down! A kind of cold shiver went through me, and then I struck out for\
her. \'a0She was very deep, and I see in a minute there warn\'92t much chance\
for anybody being alive in her. \'a0I pulled all around her and hollered\
a little, but there wasn\'92t any answer; all dead still. \'a0I felt a little\
bit heavy-hearted about the gang, but not much, for I reckoned if they\
could stand it I could.\
\
Then here comes the ferryboat; so I shoved for the middle of the river\
on a long down-stream slant; and when I judged I was out of eye-reach\
I laid on my oars, and looked back and see her go and smell around the\
wreck for Miss Hooker\'92s remainders, because the captain would know her\
uncle Hornback would want them; and then pretty soon the ferryboat give\
it up and went for the shore, and I laid into my work and went a-booming\
down the river.\
\
It did seem a powerful long time before Jim\'92s light showed up; and when\
it did show it looked like it was a thousand mile off. \'a0By the time I\
got there the sky was beginning to get a little gray in the east; so we\
struck for an island, and hid the raft, and sunk the skiff, and turned\
in and slept like dead people.\
\
\
\
\
CHAPTER XIV.\
\
BY and by, when we got up, we turned over the truck the gang had stole\
off of the wreck, and found boots, and blankets, and clothes, and all\
sorts of other things, and a lot of books, and a spyglass, and three\
boxes of seegars. \'a0We hadn\'92t ever been this rich before in neither of\
our lives. \'a0The seegars was prime. \'a0We laid off all the afternoon in the\
woods talking, and me reading the books, and having a general good\
time. I told Jim all about what happened inside the wreck and at the\
ferryboat, and I said these kinds of things was adventures; but he said\
he didn\'92t want no more adventures. \'a0He said that when I went in the\
texas and he crawled back to get on the raft and found her gone he\
nearly died, because he judged it was all up with _him_ anyway it could\
be fixed; for if he didn\'92t get saved he would get drownded; and if he\
did get saved, whoever saved him would send him back home so as to get\
the reward, and then Miss Watson would sell him South, sure. \'a0Well, he\
was right; he was most always right; he had an uncommon level head for a\
nigger.\
\
I read considerable to Jim about kings and dukes and earls and such, and\
how gaudy they dressed, and how much style they put on, and called each\
other your majesty, and your grace, and your lordship, and so on, \'91stead\
of mister; and Jim\'92s eyes bugged out, and he was interested. \'a0He says:\
\
\'93I didn\'92 know dey was so many un um. \'a0I hain\'92t hearn \'91bout none un um,\
skasely, but ole King Sollermun, onless you counts dem kings dat\'92s in a\
pack er k\'92yards. \'a0How much do a king git?\'94\
\
\'93Get?\'94 \'a0I says; \'93why, they get a thousand dollars a month if they want\
it; they can have just as much as they want; everything belongs to\
them.\'94\
\
\'93_Ain\'92_ dat gay? \'a0En what dey got to do, Huck?\'94\
\
\'93_They_ don\'92t do nothing! \'a0Why, how you talk! They just set around.\'94\
\
\'93No; is dat so?\'94\
\
\'93Of course it is. \'a0They just set around--except, maybe, when there\'92s a\
war; then they go to the war. \'a0But other times they just lazy around; or\
go hawking--just hawking and sp--Sh!--d\'92 you hear a noise?\'94\
\
We skipped out and looked; but it warn\'92t nothing but the flutter of a\
steamboat\'92s wheel away down, coming around the point; so we come back.\
\
\'93Yes,\'94 says I, \'93and other times, when things is dull, they fuss with the\
parlyment; and if everybody don\'92t go just so he whacks their heads off.\
But mostly they hang round the harem.\'94\
\
\'93Roun\'92 de which?\'94\
\
\'93Harem.\'94\
\
\'93What\'92s de harem?\'94\
\
\'93The place where he keeps his wives. \'a0Don\'92t you know about the harem?\
Solomon had one; he had about a million wives.\'94\
\
\'93Why, yes, dat\'92s so; I--I\'92d done forgot it. \'a0A harem\'92s a bo\'92d\'92n-house, I\
reck\'92n. \'a0Mos\'92 likely dey has rackety times in de nussery. \'a0En I reck\'92n\
de wives quarrels considable; en dat \'91crease de racket. \'a0Yit dey say\
Sollermun de wises\'92 man dat ever live\'92. \'a0I doan\'92 take no stock in\
dat. Bekase why: would a wise man want to live in de mids\'92 er sich a\
blim-blammin\'92 all de time? \'a0No--\'91deed he wouldn\'92t. \'a0A wise man \'91ud take\
en buil\'92 a biler-factry; en den he could shet _down_ de biler-factry\
when he want to res\'92.\'94\
\
\'93Well, but he _was_ the wisest man, anyway; because the widow she told\
me so, her own self.\'94\
\
\'93I doan k\'92yer what de widder say, he _warn\'92t_ no wise man nuther. \'a0He\
had some er de dad-fetchedes\'92 ways I ever see. \'a0Does you know \'91bout dat\
chile dat he \'91uz gwyne to chop in two?\'94\
\
\'93Yes, the widow told me all about it.\'94\
\
\'93_Well_, den! \'a0Warn\'92 dat de beatenes\'92 notion in de worl\'92? \'a0You jes\'92\
take en look at it a minute. \'a0Dah\'92s de stump, dah--dat\'92s one er de women;\
heah\'92s you--dat\'92s de yuther one; I\'92s Sollermun; en dish yer dollar bill\'92s\
de chile. \'a0Bofe un you claims it. \'a0What does I do? \'a0Does I shin aroun\'92\
mongs\'92 de neighbors en fine out which un you de bill _do_ b\'92long to, en\
han\'92 it over to de right one, all safe en soun\'92, de way dat anybody dat\
had any gumption would? \'a0No; I take en whack de bill in _two_, en give\
half un it to you, en de yuther half to de yuther woman. \'a0Dat\'92s de way\
Sollermun was gwyne to do wid de chile. \'a0Now I want to ast you: \'a0what\'92s\
de use er dat half a bill?--can\'92t buy noth\'92n wid it. \'a0En what use is a\
half a chile? \'a0I wouldn\'92 give a dern for a million un um.\'94\
\
\'93But hang it, Jim, you\'92ve clean missed the point--blame it, you\'92ve missed\
it a thousand mile.\'94\
\
\'93Who? \'a0Me? \'a0Go \'91long. \'a0Doan\'92 talk to me \'91bout yo\'92 pints. \'a0I reck\'92n I\
knows sense when I sees it; en dey ain\'92 no sense in sich doin\'92s as\
dat. De \'91spute warn\'92t \'91bout a half a chile, de \'91spute was \'91bout a whole\
chile; en de man dat think he kin settle a \'91spute \'91bout a whole chile\
wid a half a chile doan\'92 know enough to come in out\'92n de rain. \'a0Doan\'92\
talk to me \'91bout Sollermun, Huck, I knows him by de back.\'94\
\
\'93But I tell you you don\'92t get the point.\'94\
\
\'93Blame de point! \'a0I reck\'92n I knows what I knows. \'a0En mine you, de _real_\
pint is down furder--it\'92s down deeper. \'a0It lays in de way Sollermun was\
raised. \'a0You take a man dat\'92s got on\'92y one or two chillen; is dat man\
gwyne to be waseful o\'92 chillen? \'a0No, he ain\'92t; he can\'92t \'91ford it. \'a0_He_\
know how to value \'91em. \'a0But you take a man dat\'92s got \'91bout five million\
chillen runnin\'92 roun\'92 de house, en it\'92s diffunt. \'a0_He_ as soon chop a\
chile in two as a cat. Dey\'92s plenty mo\'92. \'a0A chile er two, mo\'92 er less,\
warn\'92t no consekens to Sollermun, dad fatch him!\'94\
\
I never see such a nigger. \'a0If he got a notion in his head once, there\
warn\'92t no getting it out again. \'a0He was the most down on Solomon of\
any nigger I ever see. \'a0So I went to talking about other kings, and let\
Solomon slide. \'a0I told about Louis Sixteenth that got his head cut off\
in France long time ago; and about his little boy the dolphin, that\
would a been a king, but they took and shut him up in jail, and some say\
he died there.\
\
\'93Po\'92 little chap.\'94\
\
\'93But some says he got out and got away, and come to America.\'94\
\
\'93Dat\'92s good! \'a0But he\'92ll be pooty lonesome--dey ain\'92 no kings here, is\
dey, Huck?\'94\
\
\'93No.\'94\
\
\'93Den he cain\'92t git no situation. \'a0What he gwyne to do?\'94\
\
\'93Well, I don\'92t know. \'a0Some of them gets on the police, and some of them\
learns people how to talk French.\'94\
\
\'93Why, Huck, doan\'92 de French people talk de same way we does?\'94\
\
\'93_No_, Jim; you couldn\'92t understand a word they said--not a single word.\'94\
\
\'93Well, now, I be ding-busted! \'a0How do dat come?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know; but it\'92s so. \'a0I got some of their jabber out of a book.\
S\'92pose a man was to come to you and say Polly-voo-franzy--what would you\
think?\'94\
\
\'93I wouldn\'92 think nuff\'92n; I\'92d take en bust him over de head--dat is, if he\
warn\'92t white. \'a0I wouldn\'92t \'91low no nigger to call me dat.\'94\
\
\'93Shucks, it ain\'92t calling you anything. \'a0It\'92s only saying, do you know\
how to talk French?\'94\
\
\'93Well, den, why couldn\'92t he _say_ it?\'94\
\
\'93Why, he _is_ a-saying it. \'a0That\'92s a Frenchman\'92s _way_ of saying it.\'94\
\
\'93Well, it\'92s a blame ridicklous way, en I doan\'92 want to hear no mo\'92 \'91bout\
it. \'a0Dey ain\'92 no sense in it.\'94\
\
\'93Looky here, Jim; does a cat talk like we do?\'94\
\
\'93No, a cat don\'92t.\'94\
\
\'93Well, does a cow?\'94\
\
\'93No, a cow don\'92t, nuther.\'94\
\
\'93Does a cat talk like a cow, or a cow talk like a cat?\'94\
\
\'93No, dey don\'92t.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s natural and right for \'91em to talk different from each other, ain\'92t\
it?\'94\
\
\'93Course.\'94\
\
\'93And ain\'92t it natural and right for a cat and a cow to talk different\
from _us_?\'94\
\
\'93Why, mos\'92 sholy it is.\'94\
\
\'93Well, then, why ain\'92t it natural and right for a _Frenchman_ to talk\
different from us? \'a0You answer me that.\'94\
\
\'93Is a cat a man, Huck?\'94\
\
\'93No.\'94\
\
\'93Well, den, dey ain\'92t no sense in a cat talkin\'92 like a man. \'a0Is a cow a\
man?--er is a cow a cat?\'94\
\
\'93No, she ain\'92t either of them.\'94\
\
\'93Well, den, she ain\'92t got no business to talk like either one er the\
yuther of \'91em. \'a0Is a Frenchman a man?\'94\
\
\'93Yes.\'94\
\
\'93_Well_, den! \'a0Dad blame it, why doan\'92 he _talk_ like a man? \'a0You answer\
me _dat_!\'94\
\
I see it warn\'92t no use wasting words--you can\'92t learn a nigger to argue.\
So I quit.\
\
\
\
\
CHAPTER XV.\
\
WE judged that three nights more would fetch us to Cairo, at the bottom\
of Illinois, where the Ohio River comes in, and that was what we was\
after. \'a0We would sell the raft and get on a steamboat and go way up the\
Ohio amongst the free States, and then be out of trouble.\
\
Well, the second night a fog begun to come on, and we made for a towhead\
to tie to, for it wouldn\'92t do to try to run in a fog; but when I paddled\
ahead in the canoe, with the line to make fast, there warn\'92t anything\
but little saplings to tie to. \'a0I passed the line around one of them\
right on the edge of the cut bank, but there was a stiff current, and\
the raft come booming down so lively she tore it out by the roots and\
away she went. \'a0I see the fog closing down, and it made me so sick and\
scared I couldn\'92t budge for most a half a minute it seemed to me--and\
then there warn\'92t no raft in sight; you couldn\'92t see twenty yards. \'a0I\
jumped into the canoe and run back to the stern, and grabbed the paddle\
and set her back a stroke. \'a0But she didn\'92t come. \'a0I was in such a hurry\
I hadn\'92t untied her. \'a0I got up and tried to untie her, but I was so\
excited my hands shook so I couldn\'92t hardly do anything with them.\
\
As soon as I got started I took out after the raft, hot and heavy, right\
down the towhead. \'a0That was all right as far as it went, but the towhead\
warn\'92t sixty yards long, and the minute I flew by the foot of it I shot\
out into the solid white fog, and hadn\'92t no more idea which way I was\
going than a dead man.\
\
Thinks I, it won\'92t do to paddle; first I know I\'92ll run into the bank\
or a towhead or something; I got to set still and float, and yet it\'92s\
mighty fidgety business to have to hold your hands still at such a time.\
\'a0I whooped and listened. \'a0Away down there somewheres I hears a small\
whoop, and up comes my spirits. \'a0I went tearing after it, listening\
sharp to hear it again. \'a0The next time it come I see I warn\'92t heading\
for it, but heading away to the right of it. \'a0And the next time I was\
heading away to the left of it--and not gaining on it much either, for\
I was flying around, this way and that and t\'92other, but it was going\
straight ahead all the time.\
\
I did wish the fool would think to beat a tin pan, and beat it all the\
time, but he never did, and it was the still places between the whoops\
that was making the trouble for me. \'a0Well, I fought along, and directly\
I hears the whoop _behind_ me. \'a0I was tangled good now. \'a0That was\
somebody else\'92s whoop, or else I was turned around.\
\
I throwed the paddle down. \'a0I heard the whoop again; it was behind me\
yet, but in a different place; it kept coming, and kept changing its\
place, and I kept answering, till by and by it was in front of me again,\
and I knowed the current had swung the canoe\'92s head down-stream, and I\
was all right if that was Jim and not some other raftsman hollering.\
\'a0I couldn\'92t tell nothing about voices in a fog, for nothing don\'92t look\
natural nor sound natural in a fog.\
\
The whooping went on, and in about a minute I come a-booming down on a\
cut bank with smoky ghosts of big trees on it, and the current throwed\
me off to the left and shot by, amongst a lot of snags that fairly\
roared, the currrent was tearing by them so swift.\
\
In another second or two it was solid white and still again. \'a0I set\
perfectly still then, listening to my heart thump, and I reckon I didn\'92t\
draw a breath while it thumped a hundred.\
\
I just give up then. \'a0I knowed what the matter was. \'a0That cut bank\
was an island, and Jim had gone down t\'92other side of it. \'a0It warn\'92t no\
towhead that you could float by in ten minutes. \'a0It had the big timber\
of a regular island; it might be five or six miles long and more than\
half a mile wide.\
\
I kept quiet, with my ears cocked, about fifteen minutes, I reckon. \'a0I\
was floating along, of course, four or five miles an hour; but you don\'92t\
ever think of that. \'a0No, you _feel_ like you are laying dead still on\
the water; and if a little glimpse of a snag slips by you don\'92t think to\
yourself how fast _you\'92re_ going, but you catch your breath and think,\
my! how that snag\'92s tearing along. \'a0If you think it ain\'92t dismal and\
lonesome out in a fog that way by yourself in the night, you try it\
once--you\'92ll see.\
\
Next, for about a half an hour, I whoops now and then; at last I hears\
the answer a long ways off, and tries to follow it, but I couldn\'92t do\
it, and directly I judged I\'92d got into a nest of towheads, for I had\
little dim glimpses of them on both sides of me--sometimes just a narrow\
channel between, and some that I couldn\'92t see I knowed was there because\
I\'92d hear the wash of the current against the old dead brush and trash\
that hung over the banks. \'a0Well, I warn\'92t long loosing the whoops down\
amongst the towheads; and I only tried to chase them a little while,\
anyway, because it was worse than chasing a Jack-o\'92-lantern. \'a0You never\
knowed a sound dodge around so, and swap places so quick and so much.\
\
I had to claw away from the bank pretty lively four or five times, to\
keep from knocking the islands out of the river; and so I judged the\
raft must be butting into the bank every now and then, or else it would\
get further ahead and clear out of hearing--it was floating a little\
faster than what I was.\
\
Well, I seemed to be in the open river again by and by, but I couldn\'92t\
hear no sign of a whoop nowheres. \'a0I reckoned Jim had fetched up on a\
snag, maybe, and it was all up with him. \'a0I was good and tired, so I\
laid down in the canoe and said I wouldn\'92t bother no more. \'a0I didn\'92t\
want to go to sleep, of course; but I was so sleepy I couldn\'92t help it;\
so I thought I would take jest one little cat-nap.\
\
But I reckon it was more than a cat-nap, for when I waked up the stars\
was shining bright, the fog was all gone, and I was spinning down a\
big bend stern first. \'a0First I didn\'92t know where I was; I thought I was\
dreaming; and when things began to come back to me they seemed to come\
up dim out of last week.\
\
It was a monstrous big river here, with the tallest and the thickest\
kind of timber on both banks; just a solid wall, as well as I could see\
by the stars. \'a0I looked away down-stream, and seen a black speck on the\
water. I took after it; but when I got to it it warn\'92t nothing but a\
couple of sawlogs made fast together. \'a0Then I see another speck, and\
chased that; then another, and this time I was right. \'a0It was the raft.\
\
When I got to it Jim was setting there with his head down between his\
knees, asleep, with his right arm hanging over the steering-oar. \'a0The\
other oar was smashed off, and the raft was littered up with leaves and\
branches and dirt. \'a0So she\'92d had a rough time.\
\
I made fast and laid down under Jim\'92s nose on the raft, and began to\
gap, and stretch my fists out against Jim, and says:\
\
\'93Hello, Jim, have I been asleep? \'a0Why didn\'92t you stir me up?\'94\
\
\'93Goodness gracious, is dat you, Huck? \'a0En you ain\'92 dead--you ain\'92\
drownded--you\'92s back agin? \'a0It\'92s too good for true, honey, it\'92s too good\
for true. Lemme look at you chile, lemme feel o\'92 you. \'a0No, you ain\'92\
dead! you\'92s back agin, \'91live en soun\'92, jis de same ole Huck--de same ole\
Huck, thanks to goodness!\'94\
\
\'93What\'92s the matter with you, Jim? \'a0You been a-drinking?\'94\
\
\'93Drinkin\'92? \'a0Has I ben a-drinkin\'92? \'a0Has I had a chance to be a-drinkin\'92?\'94\
\
\'93Well, then, what makes you talk so wild?\'94\
\
\'93How does I talk wild?\'94\
\
\'93_How_? \'a0Why, hain\'92t you been talking about my coming back, and all that\
stuff, as if I\'92d been gone away?\'94\
\
\'93Huck--Huck Finn, you look me in de eye; look me in de eye. \'a0_Hain\'92t_ you\
ben gone away?\'94\
\
\'93Gone away? \'a0Why, what in the nation do you mean? \'a0I hain\'92t been gone\
anywheres. \'a0Where would I go to?\'94\
\
\'93Well, looky here, boss, dey\'92s sumf\'92n wrong, dey is. \'a0Is I _me_, or who\
_is_ I? Is I heah, or whah _is_ I? \'a0Now dat\'92s what I wants to know.\'94\
\
\'93Well, I think you\'92re here, plain enough, but I think you\'92re a\
tangle-headed old fool, Jim.\'94\
\
\'93I is, is I? \'a0Well, you answer me dis: \'a0Didn\'92t you tote out de line in\
de canoe fer to make fas\'92 to de tow-head?\'94\
\
\'93No, I didn\'92t. \'a0What tow-head? \'a0I hain\'92t see no tow-head.\'94\
\
\'93You hain\'92t seen no towhead? \'a0Looky here, didn\'92t de line pull loose en\
de raf\'92 go a-hummin\'92 down de river, en leave you en de canoe behine in\
de fog?\'94\
\
\'93What fog?\'94\
\
\'93Why, de fog!--de fog dat\'92s been aroun\'92 all night. \'a0En didn\'92t you whoop,\
en didn\'92t I whoop, tell we got mix\'92 up in de islands en one un us got\
los\'92 en t\'92other one was jis\'92 as good as los\'92, \'91kase he didn\'92 know whah\
he wuz? En didn\'92t I bust up agin a lot er dem islands en have a turrible\
time en mos\'92 git drownded? \'a0Now ain\'92 dat so, boss--ain\'92t it so? \'a0You\
answer me dat.\'94\
\
\'93Well, this is too many for me, Jim. \'a0I hain\'92t seen no fog, nor no\
islands, nor no troubles, nor nothing. \'a0I been setting here talking with\
you all night till you went to sleep about ten minutes ago, and I reckon\
I done the same. \'a0You couldn\'92t a got drunk in that time, so of course\
you\'92ve been dreaming.\'94\
\
\'93Dad fetch it, how is I gwyne to dream all dat in ten minutes?\'94\
\
\'93Well, hang it all, you did dream it, because there didn\'92t any of it\
happen.\'94\
\
\'93But, Huck, it\'92s all jis\'92 as plain to me as--\'94\
\
\'93It don\'92t make no difference how plain it is; there ain\'92t nothing in it.\
I know, because I\'92ve been here all the time.\'94\
\
Jim didn\'92t say nothing for about five minutes, but set there studying\
over it. \'a0Then he says:\
\
\'93Well, den, I reck\'92n I did dream it, Huck; but dog my cats ef it ain\'92t\
de powerfullest dream I ever see. \'a0En I hain\'92t ever had no dream b\'92fo\'92\
dat\'92s tired me like dis one.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, well, that\'92s all right, because a dream does tire a body like\
everything sometimes. \'a0But this one was a staving dream; tell me all\
about it, Jim.\'94\
\
So Jim went to work and told me the whole thing right through, just as\
it happened, only he painted it up considerable. \'a0Then he said he must\
start in and \'93\'91terpret\'94 it, because it was sent for a warning. \'a0He said\
the first towhead stood for a man that would try to do us some good, but\
the current was another man that would get us away from him. \'a0The whoops\
was warnings that would come to us every now and then, and if we didn\'92t\
try hard to make out to understand them they\'92d just take us into bad\
luck, \'91stead of keeping us out of it. \'a0The lot of towheads was troubles\
we was going to get into with quarrelsome people and all kinds of mean\
folks, but if we minded our business and didn\'92t talk back and aggravate\
them, we would pull through and get out of the fog and into the big\
clear river, which was the free States, and wouldn\'92t have no more\
trouble.\
\
It had clouded up pretty dark just after I got on to the raft, but it\
was clearing up again now.\
\
\'93Oh, well, that\'92s all interpreted well enough as far as it goes, Jim,\'94 I\
says; \'93but what does _these_ things stand for?\'94\
\
It was the leaves and rubbish on the raft and the smashed oar. \'a0You\
could see them first-rate now.\
\
Jim looked at the trash, and then looked at me, and back at the trash\
again. \'a0He had got the dream fixed so strong in his head that he\
couldn\'92t seem to shake it loose and get the facts back into its place\
again right away. \'a0But when he did get the thing straightened around he\
looked at me steady without ever smiling, and says:\
\
\'93What do dey stan\'92 for? \'a0I\'92se gwyne to tell you. \'a0When I got all wore\
out wid work, en wid de callin\'92 for you, en went to sleep, my heart wuz\
mos\'92 broke bekase you wuz los\'92, en I didn\'92 k\'92yer no\'92 mo\'92 what become\
er me en de raf\'92. \'a0En when I wake up en fine you back agin, all safe\
en soun\'92, de tears come, en I could a got down on my knees en kiss yo\'92\
foot, I\'92s so thankful. En all you wuz thinkin\'92 \'91bout wuz how you could\
make a fool uv ole Jim wid a lie. \'a0Dat truck dah is _trash_; en trash\
is what people is dat puts dirt on de head er dey fren\'92s en makes \'91em\
ashamed.\'94\
\
Then he got up slow and walked to the wigwam, and went in there without\
saying anything but that. \'a0But that was enough. \'a0It made me feel so mean\
I could almost kissed _his_ foot to get him to take it back.\
\
It was fifteen minutes before I could work myself up to go and humble\
myself to a nigger; but I done it, and I warn\'92t ever sorry for it\
afterwards, neither. \'a0I didn\'92t do him no more mean tricks, and I\
wouldn\'92t done that one if I\'92d a knowed it would make him feel that way.\
\
\
\
\
CHAPTER XVI.\
\
WE slept most all day, and started out at night, a little ways behind a\
monstrous long raft that was as long going by as a procession. \'a0She had\
four long sweeps at each end, so we judged she carried as many as thirty\
men, likely. \'a0She had five big wigwams aboard, wide apart, and an open\
camp fire in the middle, and a tall flag-pole at each end. \'a0There was a\
power of style about her. \'a0It _amounted_ to something being a raftsman\
on such a craft as that.\
\
We went drifting down into a big bend, and the night clouded up and got\
hot. \'a0The river was very wide, and was walled with solid timber on\
both sides; you couldn\'92t see a break in it hardly ever, or a light. \'a0We\
talked about Cairo, and wondered whether we would know it when we got to\
it. \'a0I said likely we wouldn\'92t, because I had heard say there warn\'92t but\
about a dozen houses there, and if they didn\'92t happen to have them lit\
up, how was we going to know we was passing a town? \'a0Jim said if the two\
big rivers joined together there, that would show. \'a0But I said maybe\
we might think we was passing the foot of an island and coming into the\
same old river again. That disturbed Jim--and me too. \'a0So the question\
was, what to do? \'a0I said, paddle ashore the first time a light showed,\
and tell them pap was behind, coming along with a trading-scow, and\
was a green hand at the business, and wanted to know how far it was to\
Cairo. \'a0Jim thought it was a good idea, so we took a smoke on it and\
waited.\
\
There warn\'92t nothing to do now but to look out sharp for the town, and\
not pass it without seeing it. \'a0He said he\'92d be mighty sure to see it,\
because he\'92d be a free man the minute he seen it, but if he missed it\
he\'92d be in a slave country again and no more show for freedom. \'a0Every\
little while he jumps up and says:\
\
\'93Dah she is?\'94\
\
But it warn\'92t. \'a0It was Jack-o\'92-lanterns, or lightning bugs; so he set\
down again, and went to watching, same as before. \'a0Jim said it made him\
all over trembly and feverish to be so close to freedom. \'a0Well, I can\
tell you it made me all over trembly and feverish, too, to hear him,\
because I begun to get it through my head that he _was_ most free--and\
who was to blame for it? \'a0Why, _me_. \'a0I couldn\'92t get that out of my\
conscience, no how nor no way. It got to troubling me so I couldn\'92t\
rest; I couldn\'92t stay still in one place. \'a0It hadn\'92t ever come home to\
me before, what this thing was that I was doing. \'a0But now it did; and it\
stayed with me, and scorched me more and more. \'a0I tried to make out to\
myself that I warn\'92t to blame, because I didn\'92t run Jim off from his\
rightful owner; but it warn\'92t no use, conscience up and says, every\
time, \'93But you knowed he was running for his freedom, and you could a\
paddled ashore and told somebody.\'94 \'a0That was so--I couldn\'92t get around\
that noway. \'a0That was where it pinched. \'a0Conscience says to me, \'93What\
had poor Miss Watson done to you that you could see her nigger go off\
right under your eyes and never say one single word? \'a0What did that poor\
old woman do to you that you could treat her so mean? \'a0Why, she tried to\
learn you your book, she tried to learn you your manners, she tried to\
be good to you every way she knowed how. \'a0_That\'92s_ what she done.\'94\
\
I got to feeling so mean and so miserable I most wished I was dead. \'a0I\
fidgeted up and down the raft, abusing myself to myself, and Jim was\
fidgeting up and down past me. \'a0We neither of us could keep still.\
\'a0Every time he danced around and says, \'93Dah\'92s Cairo!\'94 it went through me\
like a shot, and I thought if it _was_ Cairo I reckoned I would die of\
miserableness.\
\
Jim talked out loud all the time while I was talking to myself. \'a0He was\
saying how the first thing he would do when he got to a free State he\
would go to saving up money and never spend a single cent, and when he\
got enough he would buy his wife, which was owned on a farm close to\
where Miss Watson lived; and then they would both work to buy the\
two children, and if their master wouldn\'92t sell them, they\'92d get an\
Ab\'92litionist to go and steal them.\
\
It most froze me to hear such talk. \'a0He wouldn\'92t ever dared to talk such\
talk in his life before. \'a0Just see what a difference it made in him the\
minute he judged he was about free. \'a0It was according to the old saying,\
\'93Give a nigger an inch and he\'92ll take an ell.\'94 \'a0Thinks I, this is what\
comes of my not thinking. \'a0Here was this nigger, which I had as good\
as helped to run away, coming right out flat-footed and saying he would\
steal his children--children that belonged to a man I didn\'92t even know; a\
man that hadn\'92t ever done me no harm.\
\
I was sorry to hear Jim say that, it was such a lowering of him. \'a0My\
conscience got to stirring me up hotter than ever, until at last I says\
to it, \'93Let up on me--it ain\'92t too late yet--I\'92ll paddle ashore at the\
first light and tell.\'94 \'a0I felt easy and happy and light as a feather\
right off. \'a0All my troubles was gone. \'a0I went to looking out sharp for a\
light, and sort of singing to myself. \'a0By and by one showed. \'a0Jim sings\
out:\
\
\'93We\'92s safe, Huck, we\'92s safe! \'a0Jump up and crack yo\'92 heels! \'a0Dat\'92s de\
good ole Cairo at las\'92, I jis knows it!\'94\
\
I says:\
\
\'93I\'92ll take the canoe and go and see, Jim. \'a0It mightn\'92t be, you know.\'94\
\
He jumped and got the canoe ready, and put his old coat in the bottom\
for me to set on, and give me the paddle; and as I shoved off, he says:\
\
\'93Pooty soon I\'92ll be a-shout\'92n\'92 for joy, en I\'92ll say, it\'92s all on\
accounts o\'92 Huck; I\'92s a free man, en I couldn\'92t ever ben free ef it\
hadn\'92 ben for Huck; Huck done it. \'a0Jim won\'92t ever forgit you, Huck;\
you\'92s de bes\'92 fren\'92 Jim\'92s ever had; en you\'92s de _only_ fren\'92 ole Jim\'92s\
got now.\'94\
\
I was paddling off, all in a sweat to tell on him; but when he says\
this, it seemed to kind of take the tuck all out of me. \'a0I went along\
slow then, and I warn\'92t right down certain whether I was glad I started\
or whether I warn\'92t. \'a0When I was fifty yards off, Jim says:\
\
\'93Dah you goes, de ole true Huck; de on\'92y white genlman dat ever kep\'92 his\
promise to ole Jim.\'94\
\
Well, I just felt sick. \'a0But I says, I _got_ to do it--I can\'92t get _out_\
of it. \'a0Right then along comes a skiff with two men in it with guns, and\
they stopped and I stopped. \'a0One of them says:\
\
\'93What\'92s that yonder?\'94\
\
\'93A piece of a raft,\'94 I says.\
\
\'93Do you belong on it?\'94\
\
\'93Yes, sir.\'94\
\
\'93Any men on it?\'94\
\
\'93Only one, sir.\'94\
\
\'93Well, there\'92s five niggers run off to-night up yonder, above the head\
of the bend. \'a0Is your man white or black?\'94\
\
I didn\'92t answer up prompt. \'a0I tried to, but the words wouldn\'92t come. I\
tried for a second or two to brace up and out with it, but I warn\'92t man\
enough--hadn\'92t the spunk of a rabbit. \'a0I see I was weakening; so I just\
give up trying, and up and says:\
\
\'93He\'92s white.\'94\
\
\'93I reckon we\'92ll go and see for ourselves.\'94\
\
\'93I wish you would,\'94 says I, \'93because it\'92s pap that\'92s there, and maybe\
you\'92d help me tow the raft ashore where the light is. \'a0He\'92s sick--and so\
is mam and Mary Ann.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, the devil! we\'92re in a hurry, boy. \'a0But I s\'92pose we\'92ve got to.\
\'a0Come, buckle to your paddle, and let\'92s get along.\'94\
\
I buckled to my paddle and they laid to their oars. \'a0When we had made a\
stroke or two, I says:\
\
\'93Pap\'92ll be mighty much obleeged to you, I can tell you. \'a0Everybody goes\
away when I want them to help me tow the raft ashore, and I can\'92t do it\
by myself.\'94\
\
\'93Well, that\'92s infernal mean. \'a0Odd, too. \'a0Say, boy, what\'92s the matter\
with your father?\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s the--a--the--well, it ain\'92t anything much.\'94\
\
They stopped pulling. \'a0It warn\'92t but a mighty little ways to the raft\
now. One says:\
\
\'93Boy, that\'92s a lie. \'a0What _is_ the matter with your pap? \'a0Answer up\
square now, and it\'92ll be the better for you.\'94\
\
\'93I will, sir, I will, honest--but don\'92t leave us, please. \'a0It\'92s\
the--the--Gentlemen, if you\'92ll only pull ahead, and let me heave you the\
headline, you won\'92t have to come a-near the raft--please do.\'94\
\
\'93Set her back, John, set her back!\'94 says one. \'a0They backed water.  \'93Keep\
away, boy--keep to looard. \'a0Confound it, I just expect the wind has\
blowed it to us. \'a0Your pap\'92s got the small-pox, and you know it precious\
well. \'a0Why didn\'92t you come out and say so? \'a0Do you want to spread it all\
over?\'94\
\
\'93Well,\'94 says I, a-blubbering, \'93I\'92ve told everybody before, and they just\
went away and left us.\'94\
\
\'93Poor devil, there\'92s something in that. \'a0We are right down sorry for\
you, but we--well, hang it, we don\'92t want the small-pox, you see. \'a0Look\
here, I\'92ll tell you what to do. \'a0Don\'92t you try to land by yourself, or\
you\'92ll smash everything to pieces. \'a0You float along down about twenty\
miles, and you\'92ll come to a town on the left-hand side of the river. \'a0It\
will be long after sun-up then, and when you ask for help you tell them\
your folks are all down with chills and fever. \'a0Don\'92t be a fool again,\
and let people guess what is the matter. \'a0Now we\'92re trying to do you a\
kindness; so you just put twenty miles between us, that\'92s a good boy.\
\'a0It wouldn\'92t do any good to land yonder where the light is--it\'92s only a\
wood-yard. Say, I reckon your father\'92s poor, and I\'92m bound to say he\'92s\
in pretty hard luck. \'a0Here, I\'92ll put a twenty-dollar gold piece on this\
board, and you get it when it floats by. \'a0I feel mighty mean to leave\
you; but my kingdom! it won\'92t do to fool with small-pox, don\'92t you see?\'94\
\
\'93Hold on, Parker,\'94 says the other man, \'93here\'92s a twenty to put on the\
board for me. \'a0Good-bye, boy; you do as Mr. Parker told you, and you\'92ll\
be all right.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s so, my boy--good-bye, good-bye. \'a0If you see any runaway niggers\
you get help and nab them, and you can make some money by it.\'94\
\
\'93Good-bye, sir,\'94 says I; \'93I won\'92t let no runaway niggers get by me if I\
can help it.\'94\
\
They went off and I got aboard the raft, feeling bad and low, because I\
knowed very well I had done wrong, and I see it warn\'92t no use for me\
to try to learn to do right; a body that don\'92t get _started_ right when\
he\'92s little ain\'92t got no show--when the pinch comes there ain\'92t nothing\
to back him up and keep him to his work, and so he gets beat. \'a0Then I\
thought a minute, and says to myself, hold on; s\'92pose you\'92d a done right\
and give Jim up, would you felt better than what you do now? \'a0No, says\
I, I\'92d feel bad--I\'92d feel just the same way I do now. \'a0Well, then, says\
I, what\'92s the use you learning to do right when it\'92s troublesome to do\
right and ain\'92t no trouble to do wrong, and the wages is just the same?\
\'a0I was stuck. \'a0I couldn\'92t answer that. \'a0So I reckoned I wouldn\'92t bother\
no more about it, but after this always do whichever come handiest at\
the time.\
\
I went into the wigwam; Jim warn\'92t there. \'a0I looked all around; he\
warn\'92t anywhere. \'a0I says:\
\
\'93Jim!\'94\
\
\'93Here I is, Huck. \'a0Is dey out o\'92 sight yit? \'a0Don\'92t talk loud.\'94\
\
He was in the river under the stern oar, with just his nose out. \'a0I told\
him they were out of sight, so he come aboard. \'a0He says:\
\
\'93I was a-listenin\'92 to all de talk, en I slips into de river en was gwyne\
to shove for sho\'92 if dey come aboard. \'a0Den I was gwyne to swim to de\
raf\'92 agin when dey was gone. \'a0But lawsy, how you did fool \'91em, Huck!\
\'a0Dat _wuz_ de smartes\'92 dodge! \'a0I tell you, chile, I\'92spec it save\'92 ole\
Jim--ole Jim ain\'92t going to forgit you for dat, honey.\'94\
\
Then we talked about the money. \'a0It was a pretty good raise--twenty\
dollars apiece. \'a0Jim said we could take deck passage on a steamboat\
now, and the money would last us as far as we wanted to go in the free\
States. He said twenty mile more warn\'92t far for the raft to go, but he\
wished we was already there.\
\
Towards daybreak we tied up, and Jim was mighty particular about hiding\
the raft good. \'a0Then he worked all day fixing things in bundles, and\
getting all ready to quit rafting.\
\
That night about ten we hove in sight of the lights of a town away down\
in a left-hand bend.\
\
I went off in the canoe to ask about it. \'a0Pretty soon I found a man out\
in the river with a skiff, setting a trot-line. \'a0I ranged up and says:\
\
\'93Mister, is that town Cairo?\'94\
\
\'93Cairo? no. \'a0You must be a blame\'92 fool.\'94\
\
\'93What town is it, mister?\'94\
\
\'93If you want to know, go and find out. \'a0If you stay here botherin\'92\
around me for about a half a minute longer you\'92ll get something you\
won\'92t want.\'94\
\
I paddled to the raft. \'a0Jim was awful disappointed, but I said never\
mind, Cairo would be the next place, I reckoned.\
\
We passed another town before daylight, and I was going out again; but\
it was high ground, so I didn\'92t go. \'a0No high ground about Cairo, Jim\
said. I had forgot it. \'a0We laid up for the day on a towhead tolerable\
close to the left-hand bank. \'a0I begun to suspicion something. \'a0So did\
Jim. \'a0I says:\
\
\'93Maybe we went by Cairo in the fog that night.\'94\
\
He says:\
\
\'93Doan\'92 le\'92s talk about it, Huck. \'a0Po\'92 niggers can\'92t have no luck. \'a0I\
awluz \'91spected dat rattlesnake-skin warn\'92t done wid its work.\'94\
\
\'93I wish I\'92d never seen that snake-skin, Jim--I do wish I\'92d never laid\
eyes on it.\'94\
\
\'93It ain\'92t yo\'92 fault, Huck; you didn\'92 know. \'a0Don\'92t you blame yo\'92self\
\'91bout it.\'94\
\
When it was daylight, here was the clear Ohio water inshore, sure\
enough, and outside was the old regular Muddy! \'a0So it was all up with\
Cairo.\
\
We talked it all over. \'a0It wouldn\'92t do to take to the shore; we couldn\'92t\
take the raft up the stream, of course. \'a0There warn\'92t no way but to wait\
for dark, and start back in the canoe and take the chances. \'a0So we slept\
all day amongst the cottonwood thicket, so as to be fresh for the work,\
and when we went back to the raft about dark the canoe was gone!\
\
We didn\'92t say a word for a good while. \'a0There warn\'92t anything to\
say. \'a0We both knowed well enough it was some more work of the\
rattlesnake-skin; so what was the use to talk about it? \'a0It would only\
look like we was finding fault, and that would be bound to fetch more\
bad luck--and keep on fetching it, too, till we knowed enough to keep\
still.\
\
By and by we talked about what we better do, and found there warn\'92t no\
way but just to go along down with the raft till we got a chance to buy\
a canoe to go back in. \'a0We warn\'92t going to borrow it when there warn\'92t\
anybody around, the way pap would do, for that might set people after\
us.\
\
So we shoved out after dark on the raft.\
\
Anybody that don\'92t believe yet that it\'92s foolishness to handle a\
snake-skin, after all that that snake-skin done for us, will believe it\
now if they read on and see what more it done for us.\
\
The place to buy canoes is off of rafts laying up at shore. \'a0But we\
didn\'92t see no rafts laying up; so we went along during three hours and\
more. \'a0Well, the night got gray and ruther thick, which is the next\
meanest thing to fog. \'a0You can\'92t tell the shape of the river, and you\
can\'92t see no distance. It got to be very late and still, and then along\
comes a steamboat up the river. \'a0We lit the lantern, and judged she\
would see it. \'a0Up-stream boats didn\'92t generly come close to us; they\
go out and follow the bars and hunt for easy water under the reefs; but\
nights like this they bull right up the channel against the whole river.\
\
We could hear her pounding along, but we didn\'92t see her good till she\
was close. \'a0She aimed right for us. \'a0Often they do that and try to see\
how close they can come without touching; sometimes the wheel bites off\
a sweep, and then the pilot sticks his head out and laughs, and thinks\
he\'92s mighty smart. \'a0Well, here she comes, and we said she was going to\
try and shave us; but she didn\'92t seem to be sheering off a bit. \'a0She\
was a big one, and she was coming in a hurry, too, looking like a black\
cloud with rows of glow-worms around it; but all of a sudden she bulged\
out, big and scary, with a long row of wide-open furnace doors shining\
like red-hot teeth, and her monstrous bows and guards hanging right\
over us. \'a0There was a yell at us, and a jingling of bells to stop the\
engines, a powwow of cussing, and whistling of steam--and as Jim went\
overboard on one side and I on the other, she come smashing straight\
through the raft.\
\
I dived--and I aimed to find the bottom, too, for a thirty-foot wheel\
had got to go over me, and I wanted it to have plenty of room. \'a0I could\
always stay under water a minute; this time I reckon I stayed under a\
minute and a half. \'a0Then I bounced for the top in a hurry, for I was\
nearly busting. \'a0I popped out to my armpits and blowed the water out of\
my nose, and puffed a bit. \'a0Of course there was a booming current; and\
of course that boat started her engines again ten seconds after she\
stopped them, for they never cared much for raftsmen; so now she was\
churning along up the river, out of sight in the thick weather, though I\
could hear her.\
\
I sung out for Jim about a dozen times, but I didn\'92t get any answer;\
so I grabbed a plank that touched me while I was \'93treading water,\'94 and\
struck out for shore, shoving it ahead of me. \'a0But I made out to see\
that the drift of the current was towards the left-hand shore, which\
meant that I was in a crossing; so I changed off and went that way.\
\
It was one of these long, slanting, two-mile crossings; so I was a good\
long time in getting over. \'a0I made a safe landing, and clumb up the\
bank. I couldn\'92t see but a little ways, but I went poking along over\
rough ground for a quarter of a mile or more, and then I run across a\
big old-fashioned double log-house before I noticed it. \'a0I was going to\
rush by and get away, but a lot of dogs jumped out and went to howling\
and barking at me, and I knowed better than to move another peg.\
\
\
\
\
CHAPTER XVII.\
\
IN about a minute somebody spoke out of a window without putting his\
head out, and says:\
\
\'93Be done, boys! \'a0Who\'92s there?\'94\
\
I says:\
\
\'93It\'92s me.\'94\
\
\'93Who\'92s me?\'94\
\
\'93George Jackson, sir.\'94\
\
\'93What do you want?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t want nothing, sir. \'a0I only want to go along by, but the dogs\
won\'92t let me.\'94\
\
\'93What are you prowling around here this time of night for--hey?\'94\
\
\'93I warn\'92t prowling around, sir, I fell overboard off of the steamboat.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, you did, did you? \'a0Strike a light there, somebody. \'a0What did you\
say your name was?\'94\
\
\'93George Jackson, sir. \'a0I\'92m only a boy.\'94\
\
\'93Look here, if you\'92re telling the truth you needn\'92t be afraid--nobody\'92ll\
hurt you. \'a0But don\'92t try to budge; stand right where you are. \'a0Rouse out\
Bob and Tom, some of you, and fetch the guns. \'a0George Jackson, is there\
anybody with you?\'94\
\
\'93No, sir, nobody.\'94\
\
I heard the people stirring around in the house now, and see a light.\
The man sung out:\
\
\'93Snatch that light away, Betsy, you old fool--ain\'92t you got any sense?\
Put it on the floor behind the front door. \'a0Bob, if you and Tom are\
ready, take your places.\'94\
\
\'93All ready.\'94\
\
\'93Now, George Jackson, do you know the Shepherdsons?\'94\
\
\'93No, sir; I never heard of them.\'94\
\
\'93Well, that may be so, and it mayn\'92t. \'a0Now, all ready. \'a0Step forward,\
George Jackson. \'a0And mind, don\'92t you hurry--come mighty slow. \'a0If there\'92s\
anybody with you, let him keep back--if he shows himself he\'92ll be shot.\
Come along now. \'a0Come slow; push the door open yourself--just enough to\
squeeze in, d\'92 you hear?\'94\
\
I didn\'92t hurry; I couldn\'92t if I\'92d a wanted to. \'a0I took one slow step at\
a time and there warn\'92t a sound, only I thought I could hear my heart.\
\'a0The dogs were as still as the humans, but they followed a little behind\
me. When I got to the three log doorsteps I heard them unlocking and\
unbarring and unbolting. \'a0I put my hand on the door and pushed it a\
little and a little more till somebody said, \'93There, that\'92s enough--put\
your head in.\'94 I done it, but I judged they would take it off.\
\
The candle was on the floor, and there they all was, looking at me, and\
me at them, for about a quarter of a minute: \'a0Three big men with guns\
pointed at me, which made me wince, I tell you; the oldest, gray\
and about sixty, the other two thirty or more--all of them fine and\
handsome--and the sweetest old gray-headed lady, and back of her two\
young women which I couldn\'92t see right well. \'a0The old gentleman says:\
\
\'93There; I reckon it\'92s all right. \'a0Come in.\'94\
\
As soon as I was in the old gentleman he locked the door and barred it\
and bolted it, and told the young men to come in with their guns, and\
they all went in a big parlor that had a new rag carpet on the floor,\
and got together in a corner that was out of the range of the front\
windows--there warn\'92t none on the side. \'a0They held the candle, and took a\
good look at me, and all said, \'93Why, _he_ ain\'92t a Shepherdson--no, there\
ain\'92t any Shepherdson about him.\'94 \'a0Then the old man said he hoped I\
wouldn\'92t mind being searched for arms, because he didn\'92t mean no harm by\
it--it was only to make sure. \'a0So he didn\'92t pry into my pockets, but only\
felt outside with his hands, and said it was all right. \'a0He told me to\
make myself easy and at home, and tell all about myself; but the old\
lady says:\
\
\'93Why, bless you, Saul, the poor thing\'92s as wet as he can be; and don\'92t\
you reckon it may be he\'92s hungry?\'94\
\
\'93True for you, Rachel--I forgot.\'94\
\
So the old lady says:\
\
\'93Betsy\'94 (this was a nigger woman), \'93you fly around and get him something\
to eat as quick as you can, poor thing; and one of you girls go and wake\
up Buck and tell him--oh, here he is himself. \'a0Buck, take this little\
stranger and get the wet clothes off from him and dress him up in some\
of yours that\'92s dry.\'94\
\
Buck looked about as old as me--thirteen or fourteen or along there,\
though he was a little bigger than me. \'a0He hadn\'92t on anything but a\
shirt, and he was very frowzy-headed. \'a0He came in gaping and digging one\
fist into his eyes, and he was dragging a gun along with the other one.\
He says:\
\
\'93Ain\'92t they no Shepherdsons around?\'94\
\
They said, no, \'91twas a false alarm.\
\
\'93Well,\'94 he says, \'93if they\'92d a ben some, I reckon I\'92d a got one.\'94\
\
They all laughed, and Bob says:\
\
\'93Why, Buck, they might have scalped us all, you\'92ve been so slow in\
coming.\'94\
\
\'93Well, nobody come after me, and it ain\'92t right I\'92m always kept down; I\
don\'92t get no show.\'94\
\
\'93Never mind, Buck, my boy,\'94 says the old man, \'93you\'92ll have show enough,\
all in good time, don\'92t you fret about that. \'a0Go \'91long with you now, and\
do as your mother told you.\'94\
\
When we got up-stairs to his room he got me a coarse shirt and a\
roundabout and pants of his, and I put them on. \'a0While I was at it he\
asked me what my name was, but before I could tell him he started to\
tell me about a bluejay and a young rabbit he had catched in the woods\
day before yesterday, and he asked me where Moses was when the candle\
went out. \'a0I said I didn\'92t know; I hadn\'92t heard about it before, no way.\
\
\'93Well, guess,\'94 he says.\
\
\'93How\'92m I going to guess,\'94 says I, \'93when I never heard tell of it\
before?\'94\
\
\'93But you can guess, can\'92t you? \'a0It\'92s just as easy.\'94\
\
\'93_Which_ candle?\'94 \'a0I says.\
\
\'93Why, any candle,\'94 he says.\
\
\'93I don\'92t know where he was,\'94 says I; \'93where was he?\'94\
\
\'93Why, he was in the _dark_! \'a0That\'92s where he was!\'94\
\
\'93Well, if you knowed where he was, what did you ask me for?\'94\
\
\'93Why, blame it, it\'92s a riddle, don\'92t you see? \'a0Say, how long are you\
going to stay here? \'a0You got to stay always. \'a0We can just have booming\
times--they don\'92t have no school now. \'a0Do you own a dog? \'a0I\'92ve got a\
dog--and he\'92ll go in the river and bring out chips that you throw in. \'a0Do\
you like to comb up Sundays, and all that kind of foolishness? \'a0You bet\
I don\'92t, but ma she makes me. \'a0Confound these ole britches! \'a0I reckon\
I\'92d better put \'91em on, but I\'92d ruther not, it\'92s so warm. \'a0Are you all\
ready? All right. \'a0Come along, old hoss.\'94\
\
Cold corn-pone, cold corn-beef, butter and buttermilk--that is what they\
had for me down there, and there ain\'92t nothing better that ever I\'92ve\
come across yet. \'a0Buck and his ma and all of them smoked cob pipes,\
except the nigger woman, which was gone, and the two young women. \'a0They\
all smoked and talked, and I eat and talked. \'a0The young women had\
quilts around them, and their hair down their backs. \'a0They all asked me\
questions, and I told them how pap and me and all the family was living\
on a little farm down at the bottom of Arkansaw, and my sister Mary Ann\
run off and got married and never was heard of no more, and Bill went\
to hunt them and he warn\'92t heard of no more, and Tom and Mort died,\
and then there warn\'92t nobody but just me and pap left, and he was just\
trimmed down to nothing, on account of his troubles; so when he died\
I took what there was left, because the farm didn\'92t belong to us, and\
started up the river, deck passage, and fell overboard; and that was how\
I come to be here. \'a0So they said I could have a home there as long as I\
wanted it. \'a0Then it was most daylight and everybody went to bed, and I\
went to bed with Buck, and when I waked up in the morning, drat it all,\
I had forgot what my name was. So I laid there about an hour trying to\
think, and when Buck waked up I says:\
\
\'93Can you spell, Buck?\'94\
\
\'93Yes,\'94 he says.\
\
\'93I bet you can\'92t spell my name,\'94 says I.\
\
\'93I bet you what you dare I can,\'94 says he.\
\
\'93All right,\'94 says I, \'93go ahead.\'94\
\
\'93G-e-o-r-g-e J-a-x-o-n--there now,\'94 he says.\
\
\'93Well,\'94 says I, \'93you done it, but I didn\'92t think you could. \'a0It ain\'92t no\
slouch of a name to spell--right off without studying.\'94\
\
I set it down, private, because somebody might want _me_ to spell it\
next, and so I wanted to be handy with it and rattle it off like I was\
used to it.\
\
It was a mighty nice family, and a mighty nice house, too. \'a0I hadn\'92t\
seen no house out in the country before that was so nice and had so much\
style. \'a0It didn\'92t have an iron latch on the front door, nor a wooden one\
with a buckskin string, but a brass knob to turn, the same as houses in\
town. There warn\'92t no bed in the parlor, nor a sign of a bed; but heaps\
of parlors in towns has beds in them. \'a0There was a big fireplace that\
was bricked on the bottom, and the bricks was kept clean and red by\
pouring water on them and scrubbing them with another brick; sometimes\
they wash them over with red water-paint that they call Spanish-brown,\
same as they do in town. \'a0They had big brass dog-irons that could hold\
up a saw-log. There was a clock on the middle of the mantelpiece, with\
a picture of a town painted on the bottom half of the glass front, and\
a round place in the middle of it for the sun, and you could see the\
pendulum swinging behind it. \'a0It was beautiful to hear that clock tick;\
and sometimes when one of these peddlers had been along and scoured her\
up and got her in good shape, she would start in and strike a hundred\
and fifty before she got tuckered out. \'a0They wouldn\'92t took any money for\
her.\
\
Well, there was a big outlandish parrot on each side of the clock,\
made out of something like chalk, and painted up gaudy. \'a0By one of the\
parrots was a cat made of crockery, and a crockery dog by the other;\
and when you pressed down on them they squeaked, but didn\'92t open\
their mouths nor look different nor interested. \'a0They squeaked through\
underneath. \'a0There was a couple of big wild-turkey-wing fans spread out\
behind those things. \'a0On the table in the middle of the room was a kind\
of a lovely crockery basket that had apples and oranges and peaches and\
grapes piled up in it, which was much redder and yellower and prettier\
than real ones is, but they warn\'92t real because you could see where\
pieces had got chipped off and showed the white chalk, or whatever it\
was, underneath.\
\
This table had a cover made out of beautiful oilcloth, with a red and\
blue spread-eagle painted on it, and a painted border all around. \'a0It\
come all the way from Philadelphia, they said. \'a0There was some books,\
too, piled up perfectly exact, on each corner of the table. \'a0One was a\
big family Bible full of pictures. \'a0One was Pilgrim\'92s Progress, about a\
man that left his family, it didn\'92t say why. \'a0I read considerable in it\
now and then. \'a0The statements was interesting, but tough. \'a0Another was\
Friendship\'92s Offering, full of beautiful stuff and poetry; but I didn\'92t\
read the poetry. \'a0Another was Henry Clay\'92s Speeches, and another was Dr.\
Gunn\'92s Family Medicine, which told you all about what to do if a body\
was sick or dead. \'a0There was a hymn book, and a lot of other books. \'a0And\
there was nice split-bottom chairs, and perfectly sound, too--not bagged\
down in the middle and busted, like an old basket.\
\
They had pictures hung on the walls--mainly Washingtons and Lafayettes,\
and battles, and Highland Marys, and one called \'93Signing the\
Declaration.\'94 There was some that they called crayons, which one of the\
daughters which was dead made her own self when she was only\
fifteen years old. \'a0They was different from any pictures I ever see\
before--blacker, mostly, than is common. \'a0One was a woman in a slim black\
dress, belted small under the armpits, with bulges like a cabbage in\
the middle of the sleeves, and a large black scoop-shovel bonnet with\
a black veil, and white slim ankles crossed about with black tape, and\
very wee black slippers, like a chisel, and she was leaning pensive on a\
tombstone on her right elbow, under a weeping willow, and her other hand\
hanging down her side holding a white handkerchief and a reticule,\
and underneath the picture it said \'93Shall I Never See Thee More Alas.\'94\
 \'a0Another one was a young lady with her hair all combed up straight\
to the top of her head, and knotted there in front of a comb like a\
chair-back, and she was crying into a handkerchief and had a dead bird\
laying on its back in her other hand with its heels up, and underneath\
the picture it said \'93I Shall Never Hear Thy Sweet Chirrup More Alas.\'94\
 \'a0There was one where a young lady was at a window looking up at the\
moon, and tears running down her cheeks; and she had an open letter in\
one hand with black sealing wax showing on one edge of it, and she was\
mashing a locket with a chain to it against her mouth, and underneath\
the picture it said \'93And Art Thou Gone Yes Thou Art Gone Alas.\'94 \'a0These\
was all nice pictures, I reckon, but I didn\'92t somehow seem to take\
to them, because if ever I was down a little they always give me the\
fan-tods. \'a0Everybody was sorry she died, because she had laid out a lot\
more of these pictures to do, and a body could see by what she had done\
what they had lost. \'a0But I reckoned that with her disposition she was\
having a better time in the graveyard. \'a0She was at work on what they\
said was her greatest picture when she took sick, and every day and\
every night it was her prayer to be allowed to live till she got it\
done, but she never got the chance. \'a0It was a picture of a young woman\
in a long white gown, standing on the rail of a bridge all ready to jump\
off, with her hair all down her back, and looking up to the moon, with\
the tears running down her face, and she had two arms folded across her\
breast, and two arms stretched out in front, and two more reaching up\
towards the moon--and the idea was to see which pair would look best,\
and then scratch out all the other arms; but, as I was saying, she died\
before she got her mind made up, and now they kept this picture over the\
head of the bed in her room, and every time her birthday come they hung\
flowers on it. \'a0Other times it was hid with a little curtain. \'a0The young\
woman in the picture had a kind of a nice sweet face, but there was so\
many arms it made her look too spidery, seemed to me.\
\
This young girl kept a scrap-book when she was alive, and used to paste\
obituaries and accidents and cases of patient suffering in it out of the\
Presbyterian Observer, and write poetry after them out of her own head.\
It was very good poetry. This is what she wrote about a boy by the name\
of Stephen Dowling Bots that fell down a well and was drownded:\
\
ODE TO STEPHEN DOWLING BOTS, DEC\'92D\
\
And did young Stephen sicken, \'a0 \'a0And did young Stephen die? And did the\
sad hearts thicken, \'a0 \'a0And did the mourners cry?\
\
No; such was not the fate of \'a0 \'a0Young Stephen Dowling Bots; Though sad\
hearts round him thickened, \'a0  \'91Twas not from sickness\'92 shots.\
\
No whooping-cough did rack his frame, \'a0 \'a0Nor measles drear with spots;\
Not these impaired the sacred name \'a0 \'a0Of Stephen Dowling Bots.\
\
Despised love struck not with woe \'a0 \'a0That head of curly knots, Nor\
stomach troubles laid him low, \'a0 \'a0Young Stephen Dowling Bots.\
\
O no. Then list with tearful eye, \'a0 \'a0Whilst I his fate do tell. His soul\
did from this cold world fly \'a0 \'a0By falling down a well.\
\
They got him out and emptied him; \'a0 \'a0Alas it was too late; His spirit\
was gone for to sport aloft \'a0 \'a0In the realms of the good and great.\
\
If Emmeline Grangerford could make poetry like that before she was\
fourteen, there ain\'92t no telling what she could a done by and by. \'a0Buck\
said she could rattle off poetry like nothing. \'a0She didn\'92t ever have to\
stop to think. \'a0He said she would slap down a line, and if she couldn\'92t\
find anything to rhyme with it would just scratch it out and slap down\
another one, and go ahead. She warn\'92t particular; she could write about\
anything you choose to give her to write about just so it was sadful.\
Every time a man died, or a woman died, or a child died, she would be on\
hand with her \'93tribute\'94 before he was cold. \'a0She called them tributes.\
The neighbors said it was the doctor first, then Emmeline, then the\
undertaker--the undertaker never got in ahead of Emmeline but once, and\
then she hung fire on a rhyme for the dead person\'92s name, which was\
Whistler. \'a0She warn\'92t ever the same after that; she never complained,\
but she kinder pined away and did not live long. \'a0Poor thing, many\'92s the\
time I made myself go up to the little room that used to be hers and get\
out her poor old scrap-book and read in it when her pictures had been\
aggravating me and I had soured on her a little. \'a0I liked all that\
family, dead ones and all, and warn\'92t going to let anything come between\
us. \'a0Poor Emmeline made poetry about all the dead people when she was\
alive, and it didn\'92t seem right that there warn\'92t nobody to make some\
about her now she was gone; so I tried to sweat out a verse or two\
myself, but I couldn\'92t seem to make it go somehow. \'a0They kept Emmeline\'92s\
room trim and nice, and all the things fixed in it just the way she\
liked to have them when she was alive, and nobody ever slept there.\
\'a0The old lady took care of the room herself, though there was plenty\
of niggers, and she sewed there a good deal and read her Bible there\
mostly.\
\
Well, as I was saying about the parlor, there was beautiful curtains on\
the windows: \'a0white, with pictures painted on them of castles with vines\
all down the walls, and cattle coming down to drink. \'a0There was a little\
old piano, too, that had tin pans in it, I reckon, and nothing was ever\
so lovely as to hear the young ladies sing \'93The Last Link is Broken\'94\
 and play \'93The Battle of Prague\'94 on it. \'a0The walls of all the rooms was\
plastered, and most had carpets on the floors, and the whole house was\
whitewashed on the outside.\
\
It was a double house, and the big open place betwixt them was roofed\
and floored, and sometimes the table was set there in the middle of the\
day, and it was a cool, comfortable place. \'a0Nothing couldn\'92t be better.\
\'a0And warn\'92t the cooking good, and just bushels of it too!\
\
\
\
\
CHAPTER XVIII.\
\
COL. \'a0Grangerford was a gentleman, you see. \'a0He was a gentleman all\
over; and so was his family. \'a0He was well born, as the saying is, and\
that\'92s worth as much in a man as it is in a horse, so the Widow Douglas\
said, and nobody ever denied that she was of the first aristocracy\
in our town; and pap he always said it, too, though he warn\'92t no more\
quality than a mudcat himself. \'a0Col. \'a0Grangerford was very tall and\
very slim, and had a darkish-paly complexion, not a sign of red in it\
anywheres; he was clean shaved every morning all over his thin face, and\
he had the thinnest kind of lips, and the thinnest kind of nostrils, and\
a high nose, and heavy eyebrows, and the blackest kind of eyes, sunk so\
deep back that they seemed like they was looking out of caverns at\
you, as you may say. \'a0His forehead was high, and his hair was black and\
straight and hung to his shoulders. His hands was long and thin, and\
every day of his life he put on a clean shirt and a full suit from head\
to foot made out of linen so white it hurt your eyes to look at it;\
and on Sundays he wore a blue tail-coat with brass buttons on it. \'a0He\
carried a mahogany cane with a silver head to it. \'a0There warn\'92t no\
frivolishness about him, not a bit, and he warn\'92t ever loud. \'a0He was\
as kind as he could be--you could feel that, you know, and so you had\
confidence. \'a0Sometimes he smiled, and it was good to see; but when he\
straightened himself up like a liberty-pole, and the lightning begun to\
flicker out from under his eyebrows, you wanted to climb a tree first,\
and find out what the matter was afterwards. \'a0He didn\'92t ever have to\
tell anybody to mind their manners--everybody was always good-mannered\
where he was. \'a0Everybody loved to have him around, too; he was sunshine\
most always--I mean he made it seem like good weather. \'a0When he turned\
into a cloudbank it was awful dark for half a minute, and that was\
enough; there wouldn\'92t nothing go wrong again for a week.\
\
When him and the old lady come down in the morning all the family got\
up out of their chairs and give them good-day, and didn\'92t set down again\
till they had set down. \'a0Then Tom and Bob went to the sideboard where\
the decanter was, and mixed a glass of bitters and handed it to him, and\
he held it in his hand and waited till Tom\'92s and Bob\'92s was mixed, and\
then they bowed and said, \'93Our duty to you, sir, and madam;\'94 and _they_\
bowed the least bit in the world and said thank you, and so they drank,\
all three, and Bob and Tom poured a spoonful of water on the sugar and\
the mite of whisky or apple brandy in the bottom of their tumblers, and\
give it to me and Buck, and we drank to the old people too.\
\
Bob was the oldest and Tom next--tall, beautiful men with very broad\
shoulders and brown faces, and long black hair and black eyes. \'a0They\
dressed in white linen from head to foot, like the old gentleman, and\
wore broad Panama hats.\
\
Then there was Miss Charlotte; she was twenty-five, and tall and proud\
and grand, but as good as she could be when she warn\'92t stirred up; but\
when she was she had a look that would make you wilt in your tracks,\
like her father. \'a0She was beautiful.\
\
So was her sister, Miss Sophia, but it was a different kind. \'a0She was\
gentle and sweet like a dove, and she was only twenty.\
\
Each person had their own nigger to wait on them--Buck too. \'a0My nigger\
had a monstrous easy time, because I warn\'92t used to having anybody do\
anything for me, but Buck\'92s was on the jump most of the time.\
\
This was all there was of the family now, but there used to be\
more--three sons; they got killed; and Emmeline that died.\
\
The old gentleman owned a lot of farms and over a hundred niggers.\
Sometimes a stack of people would come there, horseback, from ten or\
fifteen mile around, and stay five or six days, and have such junketings\
round about and on the river, and dances and picnics in the woods\
daytimes, and balls at the house nights. \'a0These people was mostly\
kinfolks of the family. \'a0The men brought their guns with them. \'a0It was a\
handsome lot of quality, I tell you.\
\
There was another clan of aristocracy around there--five or six\
families--mostly of the name of Shepherdson. \'a0They was as high-toned\
and well born and rich and grand as the tribe of Grangerfords. \'a0The\
Shepherdsons and Grangerfords used the same steamboat landing, which was\
about two mile above our house; so sometimes when I went up there with a\
lot of our folks I used to see a lot of the Shepherdsons there on their\
fine horses.\
\
One day Buck and me was away out in the woods hunting, and heard a horse\
coming. \'a0We was crossing the road. \'a0Buck says:\
\
\'93Quick! \'a0Jump for the woods!\'94\
\
We done it, and then peeped down the woods through the leaves. \'a0Pretty\
soon a splendid young man come galloping down the road, setting his\
horse easy and looking like a soldier. \'a0He had his gun across his\
pommel. \'a0I had seen him before. \'a0It was young Harney Shepherdson. \'a0I\
heard Buck\'92s gun go off at my ear, and Harney\'92s hat tumbled off from his\
head. \'a0He grabbed his gun and rode straight to the place where we was\
hid. \'a0But we didn\'92t wait. \'a0We started through the woods on a run. \'a0The\
woods warn\'92t thick, so I looked over my shoulder to dodge the bullet,\
and twice I seen Harney cover Buck with his gun; and then he rode away\
the way he come--to get his hat, I reckon, but I couldn\'92t see. \'a0We never\
stopped running till we got home. \'a0The old gentleman\'92s eyes blazed a\
minute--\'91twas pleasure, mainly, I judged--then his face sort of smoothed\
down, and he says, kind of gentle:\
\
\'93I don\'92t like that shooting from behind a bush. \'a0Why didn\'92t you step\
into the road, my boy?\'94\
\
\'93The Shepherdsons don\'92t, father. \'a0They always take advantage.\'94\
\
Miss Charlotte she held her head up like a queen while Buck was telling\
his tale, and her nostrils spread and her eyes snapped. \'a0The two young\
men looked dark, but never said nothing. \'a0Miss Sophia she turned pale,\
but the color come back when she found the man warn\'92t hurt.\
\
Soon as I could get Buck down by the corn-cribs under the trees by\
ourselves, I says:\
\
\'93Did you want to kill him, Buck?\'94\
\
\'93Well, I bet I did.\'94\
\
\'93What did he do to you?\'94\
\
\'93Him? \'a0He never done nothing to me.\'94\
\
\'93Well, then, what did you want to kill him for?\'94\
\
\'93Why, nothing--only it\'92s on account of the feud.\'94\
\
\'93What\'92s a feud?\'94\
\
\'93Why, where was you raised? \'a0Don\'92t you know what a feud is?\'94\
\
\'93Never heard of it before--tell me about it.\'94\
\
\'93Well,\'94 says Buck, \'93a feud is this way: \'a0A man has a quarrel with\
another man, and kills him; then that other man\'92s brother kills _him_;\
then the other brothers, on both sides, goes for one another; then the\
_cousins_ chip in--and by and by everybody\'92s killed off, and there ain\'92t\
no more feud. \'a0But it\'92s kind of slow, and takes a long time.\'94\
\
\'93Has this one been going on long, Buck?\'94\
\
\'93Well, I should _reckon_! \'a0It started thirty year ago, or som\'92ers along\
there. \'a0There was trouble \'91bout something, and then a lawsuit to settle\
it; and the suit went agin one of the men, and so he up and shot the\
man that won the suit--which he would naturally do, of course. \'a0Anybody\
would.\'94\
\
\'93What was the trouble about, Buck?--land?\'94\
\
\'93I reckon maybe--I don\'92t know.\'94\
\
\'93Well, who done the shooting? \'a0Was it a Grangerford or a Shepherdson?\'94\
\
\'93Laws, how do I know? \'a0It was so long ago.\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t anybody know?\'94\
\
\'93Oh, yes, pa knows, I reckon, and some of the other old people; but they\
don\'92t know now what the row was about in the first place.\'94\
\
\'93Has there been many killed, Buck?\'94\
\
\'93Yes; right smart chance of funerals. \'a0But they don\'92t always kill. \'a0Pa\'92s\
got a few buckshot in him; but he don\'92t mind it \'91cuz he don\'92t weigh\
much, anyway. \'a0Bob\'92s been carved up some with a bowie, and Tom\'92s been\
hurt once or twice.\'94\
\
\'93Has anybody been killed this year, Buck?\'94\
\
\'93Yes; we got one and they got one.  \'91Bout three months ago my cousin\
Bud, fourteen year old, was riding through the woods on t\'92other side\
of the river, and didn\'92t have no weapon with him, which was blame\'92\
foolishness, and in a lonesome place he hears a horse a-coming behind\
him, and sees old Baldy Shepherdson a-linkin\'92 after him with his gun in\
his hand and his white hair a-flying in the wind; and \'91stead of jumping\
off and taking to the brush, Bud \'91lowed he could out-run him; so they\
had it, nip and tuck, for five mile or more, the old man a-gaining all\
the time; so at last Bud seen it warn\'92t any use, so he stopped and faced\
around so as to have the bullet holes in front, you know, and the old\
man he rode up and shot him down. \'a0But he didn\'92t git much chance to\
enjoy his luck, for inside of a week our folks laid _him_ out.\'94\
\
\'93I reckon that old man was a coward, Buck.\'94\
\
\'93I reckon he _warn\'92t_ a coward. \'a0Not by a blame\'92 sight. \'a0There ain\'92t a\
coward amongst them Shepherdsons--not a one. \'a0And there ain\'92t no cowards\
amongst the Grangerfords either. \'a0Why, that old man kep\'92 up his end in a\
fight one day for half an hour against three Grangerfords, and come\
out winner. \'a0They was all a-horseback; he lit off of his horse and got\
behind a little woodpile, and kep\'92 his horse before him to stop the\
bullets; but the Grangerfords stayed on their horses and capered around\
the old man, and peppered away at him, and he peppered away at them.\
\'a0Him and his horse both went home pretty leaky and crippled, but the\
Grangerfords had to be _fetched_ home--and one of \'91em was dead, and\
another died the next day. \'a0No, sir; if a body\'92s out hunting for cowards\
he don\'92t want to fool away any time amongst them Shepherdsons, becuz\
they don\'92t breed any of that _kind_.\'94\
\
Next Sunday we all went to church, about three mile, everybody\
a-horseback. The men took their guns along, so did Buck, and kept\
them between their knees or stood them handy against the wall. \'a0The\
Shepherdsons done the same. \'a0It was pretty ornery preaching--all about\
brotherly love, and such-like tiresomeness; but everybody said it was\
a good sermon, and they all talked it over going home, and had such\
a powerful lot to say about faith and good works and free grace and\
preforeordestination, and I don\'92t know what all, that it did seem to me\
to be one of the roughest Sundays I had run across yet.\
\
About an hour after dinner everybody was dozing around, some in their\
chairs and some in their rooms, and it got to be pretty dull. \'a0Buck and\
a dog was stretched out on the grass in the sun sound asleep. \'a0I went up\
to our room, and judged I would take a nap myself. \'a0I found that sweet\
Miss Sophia standing in her door, which was next to ours, and she took\
me in her room and shut the door very soft, and asked me if I liked her,\
and I said I did; and she asked me if I would do something for her and\
not tell anybody, and I said I would. \'a0Then she said she\'92d forgot her\
Testament, and left it in the seat at church between two other books,\
and would I slip out quiet and go there and fetch it to her, and not say\
nothing to nobody. \'a0I said I would. So I slid out and slipped off up the\
road, and there warn\'92t anybody at the church, except maybe a hog or two,\
for there warn\'92t any lock on the door, and hogs likes a puncheon floor\
in summer-time because it\'92s cool. \'a0If you notice, most folks don\'92t go to\
church only when they\'92ve got to; but a hog is different.\
\
Says I to myself, something\'92s up; it ain\'92t natural for a girl to be in\
such a sweat about a Testament. \'a0So I give it a shake, and out drops a\
little piece of paper with \'93HALF-PAST TWO\'94 wrote on it with a pencil. \'a0I\
ransacked it, but couldn\'92t find anything else. \'a0I couldn\'92t make anything\
out of that, so I put the paper in the book again, and when I got home\
and upstairs there was Miss Sophia in her door waiting for me. \'a0She\
pulled me in and shut the door; then she looked in the Testament till\
she found the paper, and as soon as she read it she looked glad; and\
before a body could think she grabbed me and give me a squeeze, and\
said I was the best boy in the world, and not to tell anybody. \'a0She was\
mighty red in the face for a minute, and her eyes lighted up, and it\
made her powerful pretty. \'a0I was a good deal astonished, but when I got\
my breath I asked her what the paper was about, and she asked me if I\
had read it, and I said no, and she asked me if I could read writing,\
and I told her \'93no, only coarse-hand,\'94 and then she said the paper\
warn\'92t anything but a book-mark to keep her place, and I might go and\
play now.\
\
I went off down to the river, studying over this thing, and pretty soon\
I noticed that my nigger was following along behind. \'a0When we was out\
of sight of the house he looked back and around a second, and then comes\
a-running, and says:\
\
\'93Mars Jawge, if you\'92ll come down into de swamp I\'92ll show you a whole\
stack o\'92 water-moccasins.\'94\
\
Thinks I, that\'92s mighty curious; he said that yesterday. \'a0He oughter\
know a body don\'92t love water-moccasins enough to go around hunting for\
them. What is he up to, anyway? \'a0So I says:\
\
\'93All right; trot ahead.\'94\
\
I followed a half a mile; then he struck out over the swamp, and waded\
ankle deep as much as another half-mile. \'a0We come to a little flat piece\
of land which was dry and very thick with trees and bushes and vines,\
and he says:\
\
\'93You shove right in dah jist a few steps, Mars Jawge; dah\'92s whah dey is.\
I\'92s seed \'91m befo\'92; I don\'92t k\'92yer to see \'91em no mo\'92.\'94\
\
Then he slopped right along and went away, and pretty soon the trees hid\
him. \'a0I poked into the place a-ways and come to a little open patch\
as big as a bedroom all hung around with vines, and found a man laying\
there asleep--and, by jings, it was my old Jim!\
\
I waked him up, and I reckoned it was going to be a grand surprise to\
him to see me again, but it warn\'92t. \'a0He nearly cried he was so glad, but\
he warn\'92t surprised. \'a0Said he swum along behind me that night, and heard\
me yell every time, but dasn\'92t answer, because he didn\'92t want nobody to\
pick _him_ up and take him into slavery again. \'a0Says he:\
\
\'93I got hurt a little, en couldn\'92t swim fas\'92, so I wuz a considable ways\
behine you towards de las\'92; when you landed I reck\'92ned I could ketch\
up wid you on de lan\'92 \'91dout havin\'92 to shout at you, but when I see dat\
house I begin to go slow. \'a0I \'91uz off too fur to hear what dey say to\
you--I wuz \'91fraid o\'92 de dogs; but when it \'91uz all quiet agin I knowed\
you\'92s in de house, so I struck out for de woods to wait for day. \'a0Early\
in de mawnin\'92 some er de niggers come along, gwyne to de fields, en dey\
tuk me en showed me dis place, whah de dogs can\'92t track me on accounts\
o\'92 de water, en dey brings me truck to eat every night, en tells me how\
you\'92s a-gitt\'92n along.\'94\
\
\'93Why didn\'92t you tell my Jack to fetch me here sooner, Jim?\'94\
\
\'93Well, \'91twarn\'92t no use to \'91sturb you, Huck, tell we could do sumfn--but\
we\'92s all right now. \'a0I ben a-buyin\'92 pots en pans en vittles, as I got a\
chanst, en a-patchin\'92 up de raf\'92 nights when--\'94\
\
\'93_What_ raft, Jim?\'94\
\
\'93Our ole raf\'92.\'94\
\
\'93You mean to say our old raft warn\'92t smashed all to flinders?\'94\
\
\'93No, she warn\'92t. \'a0She was tore up a good deal--one en\'92 of her was; but\
dey warn\'92t no great harm done, on\'92y our traps was mos\'92 all los\'92. \'a0Ef we\
hadn\'92 dive\'92 so deep en swum so fur under water, en de night hadn\'92 ben\
so dark, en we warn\'92t so sk\'92yerd, en ben sich punkin-heads, as de sayin\'92\
is, we\'92d a seed de raf\'92. \'a0But it\'92s jis\'92 as well we didn\'92t, \'91kase now\
she\'92s all fixed up agin mos\'92 as good as new, en we\'92s got a new lot o\'92\
stuff, in de place o\'92 what \'91uz los\'92.\'94\
\
\'93Why, how did you get hold of the raft again, Jim--did you catch her?\'94\
\
\'93How I gwyne to ketch her en I out in de woods? \'a0No; some er de niggers\
foun\'92 her ketched on a snag along heah in de ben\'92, en dey hid her in a\
crick \'91mongst de willows, en dey wuz so much jawin\'92 \'91bout which un \'91um\
she b\'92long to de mos\'92 dat I come to heah \'91bout it pooty soon, so I ups\
en settles de trouble by tellin\'92 \'91um she don\'92t b\'92long to none uv um, but\
to you en me; en I ast \'91m if dey gwyne to grab a young white genlman\'92s\
propaty, en git a hid\'92n for it? \'a0Den I gin \'91m ten cents apiece, en dey\
\'91uz mighty well satisfied, en wisht some mo\'92 raf\'92s \'91ud come along en\
make \'91m rich agin. Dey\'92s mighty good to me, dese niggers is, en whatever\
I wants \'91m to do fur me I doan\'92 have to ast \'91m twice, honey. \'a0Dat Jack\'92s\
a good nigger, en pooty smart.\'94\
\
\'93Yes, he is. \'a0He ain\'92t ever told me you was here; told me to come, and\
he\'92d show me a lot of water-moccasins. \'a0If anything happens _he_ ain\'92t\
mixed up in it. \'a0He can say he never seen us together, and it \'91ll be the\
truth.\'94\
\
I don\'92t want to talk much about the next day. \'a0I reckon I\'92ll cut it\
pretty short. \'a0I waked up about dawn, and was a-going to turn over and\
go to sleep again when I noticed how still it was--didn\'92t seem to be\
anybody stirring. \'a0That warn\'92t usual. \'a0Next I noticed that Buck was\
up and gone. Well, I gets up, a-wondering, and goes down stairs--nobody\
around; everything as still as a mouse. \'a0Just the same outside. \'a0Thinks\
I, what does it mean? \'a0Down by the wood-pile I comes across my Jack, and\
says:\
\
\'93What\'92s it all about?\'94\
\
Says he:\
\
\'93Don\'92t you know, Mars Jawge?\'94\
\
\'93No,\'94 says I, \'93I don\'92t.\'94\
\
\'93Well, den, Miss Sophia\'92s run off! \'91deed she has. \'a0She run off in de\
night some time--nobody don\'92t know jis\'92 when; run off to get married\
to dat young Harney Shepherdson, you know--leastways, so dey \'91spec. \'a0De\
fambly foun\'92 it out \'91bout half an hour ago--maybe a little mo\'92--en\'92 I\
_tell_ you dey warn\'92t no time los\'92. \'a0Sich another hurryin\'92 up guns\
en hosses _you_ never see! \'a0De women folks has gone for to stir up de\
relations, en ole Mars Saul en de boys tuck dey guns en rode up de\
river road for to try to ketch dat young man en kill him \'91fo\'92 he kin\
git acrost de river wid Miss Sophia. \'a0I reck\'92n dey\'92s gwyne to be mighty\
rough times.\'94\
\
\'93Buck went off \'91thout waking me up.\'94\
\
\'93Well, I reck\'92n he _did_! \'a0Dey warn\'92t gwyne to mix you up in it.\
\'a0Mars Buck he loaded up his gun en \'91lowed he\'92s gwyne to fetch home a\
Shepherdson or bust. Well, dey\'92ll be plenty un \'91m dah, I reck\'92n, en you\
bet you he\'92ll fetch one ef he gits a chanst.\'94\
\
I took up the river road as hard as I could put. \'a0By and by I begin to\
hear guns a good ways off. \'a0When I come in sight of the log store and\
the woodpile where the steamboats lands I worked along under the trees\
and brush till I got to a good place, and then I clumb up into the\
forks of a cottonwood that was out of reach, and watched. \'a0There was a\
wood-rank four foot high a little ways in front of the tree, and first I\
was going to hide behind that; but maybe it was luckier I didn\'92t.\
\
There was four or five men cavorting around on their horses in the open\
place before the log store, cussing and yelling, and trying to get at\
a couple of young chaps that was behind the wood-rank alongside of the\
steamboat landing; but they couldn\'92t come it. \'a0Every time one of them\
showed himself on the river side of the woodpile he got shot at. \'a0The\
two boys was squatting back to back behind the pile, so they could watch\
both ways.\
\
By and by the men stopped cavorting around and yelling. \'a0They started\
riding towards the store; then up gets one of the boys, draws a steady\
bead over the wood-rank, and drops one of them out of his saddle. \'a0All\
the men jumped off of their horses and grabbed the hurt one and started\
to carry him to the store; and that minute the two boys started on the\
run. \'a0They got half way to the tree I was in before the men noticed.\
Then the men see them, and jumped on their horses and took out after\
them. \'a0They gained on the boys, but it didn\'92t do no good, the boys had\
too good a start; they got to the woodpile that was in front of my tree,\
and slipped in behind it, and so they had the bulge on the men again.\
One of the boys was Buck, and the other was a slim young chap about\
nineteen years old.\
\
The men ripped around awhile, and then rode away. \'a0As soon as they was\
out of sight I sung out to Buck and told him. \'a0He didn\'92t know what\
to make of my voice coming out of the tree at first. \'a0He was awful\
surprised. \'a0He told me to watch out sharp and let him know when the\
men come in sight again; said they was up to some devilment or\
other--wouldn\'92t be gone long. \'a0I wished I was out of that tree, but I\
dasn\'92t come down. \'a0Buck begun to cry and rip, and \'91lowed that him and\
his cousin Joe (that was the other young chap) would make up for this\
day yet. \'a0He said his father and his two brothers was killed, and two\
or three of the enemy. \'a0Said the Shepherdsons laid for them in\
ambush. \'a0Buck said his father and brothers ought to waited for their\
relations--the Shepherdsons was too strong for them. \'a0I asked him what\
was become of young Harney and Miss Sophia. \'a0He said they\'92d got across\
the river and was safe. \'a0I was glad of that; but the way Buck did take\
on because he didn\'92t manage to kill Harney that day he shot at him--I\
hain\'92t ever heard anything like it.\
\
All of a sudden, bang! bang! bang! goes three or four guns--the men had\
slipped around through the woods and come in from behind without their\
horses! \'a0The boys jumped for the river--both of them hurt--and as they\
swum down the current the men run along the bank shooting at them and\
singing out, \'93Kill them, kill them!\'94 \'a0It made me so sick I most fell out\
of the tree. \'a0I ain\'92t a-going to tell _all_ that happened--it would make\
me sick again if I was to do that. \'a0I wished I hadn\'92t ever come ashore\
that night to see such things. \'a0I ain\'92t ever going to get shut of\
them--lots of times I dream about them.\
\
I stayed in the tree till it begun to get dark, afraid to come down.\
Sometimes I heard guns away off in the woods; and twice I seen little\
gangs of men gallop past the log store with guns; so I reckoned the\
trouble was still a-going on. \'a0I was mighty downhearted; so I made up my\
mind I wouldn\'92t ever go anear that house again, because I reckoned I\
was to blame, somehow. I judged that that piece of paper meant that Miss\
Sophia was to meet Harney somewheres at half-past two and run off; and\
I judged I ought to told her father about that paper and the curious way\
she acted, and then maybe he would a locked her up, and this awful mess\
wouldn\'92t ever happened.\
\
When I got down out of the tree I crept along down the river bank a\
piece, and found the two bodies laying in the edge of the water, and\
tugged at them till I got them ashore; then I covered up their faces,\
and got away as quick as I could. \'a0I cried a little when I was covering\
up Buck\'92s face, for he was mighty good to me.\
\
It was just dark now. \'a0I never went near the house, but struck through\
the woods and made for the swamp. \'a0Jim warn\'92t on his island, so I\
tramped off in a hurry for the crick, and crowded through the willows,\
red-hot to jump aboard and get out of that awful country. \'a0The raft was\
gone! \'a0My souls, but I was scared! \'a0I couldn\'92t get my breath for most\
a minute. Then I raised a yell. \'a0A voice not twenty-five foot from me\
says:\
\
\'93Good lan\'92! is dat you, honey? \'a0Doan\'92 make no noise.\'94\
\
It was Jim\'92s voice--nothing ever sounded so good before. \'a0I run along the\
bank a piece and got aboard, and Jim he grabbed me and hugged me, he was\
so glad to see me. \'a0He says:\
\
\'93Laws bless you, chile, I \'91uz right down sho\'92 you\'92s dead agin. \'a0Jack\'92s\
been heah; he say he reck\'92n you\'92s ben shot, kase you didn\'92 come home no\
mo\'92; so I\'92s jes\'92 dis minute a startin\'92 de raf\'92 down towards de mouf er\
de crick, so\'92s to be all ready for to shove out en leave soon as Jack\
comes agin en tells me for certain you _is_ dead. \'a0Lawsy, I\'92s mighty\
glad to git you back again, honey.\'94\
\
I says:\
\
\'93All right--that\'92s mighty good; they won\'92t find me, and they\'92ll think\
I\'92ve been killed, and floated down the river--there\'92s something up there\
that \'91ll help them think so--so don\'92t you lose no time, Jim, but just\
shove off for the big water as fast as ever you can.\'94\
\
I never felt easy till the raft was two mile below there and out in\
the middle of the Mississippi. \'a0Then we hung up our signal lantern, and\
judged that we was free and safe once more. \'a0I hadn\'92t had a bite to eat\
since yesterday, so Jim he got out some corn-dodgers and buttermilk,\
and pork and cabbage and greens--there ain\'92t nothing in the world so good\
when it\'92s cooked right--and whilst I eat my supper we talked and had a\
good time. \'a0I was powerful glad to get away from the feuds, and so was\
Jim to get away from the swamp. \'a0We said there warn\'92t no home like a\
raft, after all. \'a0Other places do seem so cramped up and smothery, but a\
raft don\'92t. \'a0You feel mighty free and easy and comfortable on a raft.\
\
\
\
\
CHAPTER XIX.\
\
TWO or three days and nights went by; I reckon I might say they swum by,\
they slid along so quiet and smooth and lovely. \'a0Here is the way we put\
in the time. \'a0It was a monstrous big river down there--sometimes a mile\
and a half wide; we run nights, and laid up and hid daytimes; soon as\
night was most gone we stopped navigating and tied up--nearly always\
in the dead water under a towhead; and then cut young cottonwoods and\
willows, and hid the raft with them. \'a0Then we set out the lines. \'a0Next\
we slid into the river and had a swim, so as to freshen up and cool\
off; then we set down on the sandy bottom where the water was about knee\
deep, and watched the daylight come. \'a0Not a sound anywheres--perfectly\
still--just like the whole world was asleep, only sometimes the bullfrogs\
a-cluttering, maybe. \'a0The first thing to see, looking away over the\
water, was a kind of dull line--that was the woods on t\'92other side; you\
couldn\'92t make nothing else out; then a pale place in the sky; then more\
paleness spreading around; then the river softened up away off, and\
warn\'92t black any more, but gray; you could see little dark spots\
drifting along ever so far away--trading scows, and such things; and\
long black streaks--rafts; sometimes you could hear a sweep screaking; or\
jumbled up voices, it was so still, and sounds come so far; and by and\
by you could see a streak on the water which you know by the look of the\
streak that there\'92s a snag there in a swift current which breaks on it\
and makes that streak look that way; and you see the mist curl up off\
of the water, and the east reddens up, and the river, and you make out a\
log-cabin in the edge of the woods, away on the bank on t\'92other side of\
the river, being a woodyard, likely, and piled by them cheats so you can\
throw a dog through it anywheres; then the nice breeze springs up, and\
comes fanning you from over there, so cool and fresh and sweet to smell\
on account of the woods and the flowers; but sometimes not that way,\
because they\'92ve left dead fish laying around, gars and such, and they\
do get pretty rank; and next you\'92ve got the full day, and everything\
smiling in the sun, and the song-birds just going it!\
\
A little smoke couldn\'92t be noticed now, so we would take some fish off\
of the lines and cook up a hot breakfast. \'a0And afterwards we would watch\
the lonesomeness of the river, and kind of lazy along, and by and by\
lazy off to sleep. \'a0Wake up by and by, and look to see what done it, and\
maybe see a steamboat coughing along up-stream, so far off towards the\
other side you couldn\'92t tell nothing about her only whether she was\
a stern-wheel or side-wheel; then for about an hour there wouldn\'92t be\
nothing to hear nor nothing to see--just solid lonesomeness. \'a0Next\
you\'92d see a raft sliding by, away off yonder, and maybe a galoot on it\
chopping, because they\'92re most always doing it on a raft; you\'92d see the\
axe flash and come down--you don\'92t hear nothing; you see that axe go\
up again, and by the time it\'92s above the man\'92s head then you hear the\
_k\'92chunk_!--it had took all that time to come over the water. \'a0So we\
would put in the day, lazying around, listening to the stillness. \'a0Once\
there was a thick fog, and the rafts and things that went by was beating\
tin pans so the steamboats wouldn\'92t run over them. \'a0A scow or a\
raft went by so close we could hear them talking and cussing and\
laughing--heard them plain; but we couldn\'92t see no sign of them; it made\
you feel crawly; it was like spirits carrying on that way in the air.\
\'a0Jim said he believed it was spirits; but I says:\
\
\'93No; spirits wouldn\'92t say, \'91Dern the dern fog.\'92\'94\
\
Soon as it was night out we shoved; when we got her out to about the\
middle we let her alone, and let her float wherever the current wanted\
her to; then we lit the pipes, and dangled our legs in the water, and\
talked about all kinds of things--we was always naked, day and night,\
whenever the mosquitoes would let us--the new clothes Buck\'92s folks made\
for me was too good to be comfortable, and besides I didn\'92t go much on\
clothes, nohow.\
\
Sometimes we\'92d have that whole river all to ourselves for the longest\
time. Yonder was the banks and the islands, across the water; and maybe\
a spark--which was a candle in a cabin window; and sometimes on the water\
you could see a spark or two--on a raft or a scow, you know; and maybe\
you could hear a fiddle or a song coming over from one of them crafts.\
It\'92s lovely to live on a raft. \'a0We had the sky up there, all speckled\
with stars, and we used to lay on our backs and look up at them, and\
discuss about whether they was made or only just happened. \'a0Jim he\
allowed they was made, but I allowed they happened; I judged it would\
have took too long to _make_ so many. \'a0Jim said the moon could a _laid_\
them; well, that looked kind of reasonable, so I didn\'92t say nothing\
against it, because I\'92ve seen a frog lay most as many, so of course it\
could be done. We used to watch the stars that fell, too, and see them\
streak down. \'a0Jim allowed they\'92d got spoiled and was hove out of the\
nest.\
\
Once or twice of a night we would see a steamboat slipping along in the\
dark, and now and then she would belch a whole world of sparks up out\
of her chimbleys, and they would rain down in the river and look awful\
pretty; then she would turn a corner and her lights would wink out and\
her powwow shut off and leave the river still again; and by and by her\
waves would get to us, a long time after she was gone, and joggle the\
raft a bit, and after that you wouldn\'92t hear nothing for you couldn\'92t\
tell how long, except maybe frogs or something.\
\
After midnight the people on shore went to bed, and then for two or\
three hours the shores was black--no more sparks in the cabin windows.\
\'a0These sparks was our clock--the first one that showed again meant\
morning was coming, so we hunted a place to hide and tie up right away.\
\
One morning about daybreak I found a canoe and crossed over a chute to\
the main shore--it was only two hundred yards--and paddled about a mile\
up a crick amongst the cypress woods, to see if I couldn\'92t get some\
berries. Just as I was passing a place where a kind of a cowpath crossed\
the crick, here comes a couple of men tearing up the path as tight as\
they could foot it. \'a0I thought I was a goner, for whenever anybody was\
after anybody I judged it was _me_--or maybe Jim. \'a0I was about to dig out\
from there in a hurry, but they was pretty close to me then, and sung\
out and begged me to save their lives--said they hadn\'92t been doing\
nothing, and was being chased for it--said there was men and dogs\
a-coming. \'a0They wanted to jump right in, but I says:\
\
\'93Don\'92t you do it. \'a0I don\'92t hear the dogs and horses yet; you\'92ve got time\
to crowd through the brush and get up the crick a little ways; then you\
take to the water and wade down to me and get in--that\'92ll throw the dogs\
off the scent.\'94\
\
They done it, and soon as they was aboard I lit out for our towhead,\
and in about five or ten minutes we heard the dogs and the men away off,\
shouting. We heard them come along towards the crick, but couldn\'92t\
see them; they seemed to stop and fool around a while; then, as we got\
further and further away all the time, we couldn\'92t hardly hear them at\
all; by the time we had left a mile of woods behind us and struck the\
river, everything was quiet, and we paddled over to the towhead and hid\
in the cottonwoods and was safe.\
\
One of these fellows was about seventy or upwards, and had a bald head\
and very gray whiskers. \'a0He had an old battered-up slouch hat on, and\
a greasy blue woollen shirt, and ragged old blue jeans britches stuffed\
into his boot-tops, and home-knit galluses--no, he only had one. \'a0He had\
an old long-tailed blue jeans coat with slick brass buttons flung over\
his arm, and both of them had big, fat, ratty-looking carpet-bags.\
\
The other fellow was about thirty, and dressed about as ornery. \'a0After\
breakfast we all laid off and talked, and the first thing that come out\
was that these chaps didn\'92t know one another.\
\
\'93What got you into trouble?\'94 says the baldhead to t\'92other chap.\
\
\'93Well, I\'92d been selling an article to take the tartar off the teeth--and\
it does take it off, too, and generly the enamel along with it--but I\
stayed about one night longer than I ought to, and was just in the act\
of sliding out when I ran across you on the trail this side of town, and\
you told me they were coming, and begged me to help you to get off. \'a0So\
I told you I was expecting trouble myself, and would scatter out _with_\
you. That\'92s the whole yarn--what\'92s yourn?\
\
\'93Well, I\'92d ben a-running\'92 a little temperance revival thar \'91bout a week,\
and was the pet of the women folks, big and little, for I was makin\'92 it\
mighty warm for the rummies, I _tell_ you, and takin\'92 as much as five\
or six dollars a night--ten cents a head, children and niggers free--and\
business a-growin\'92 all the time, when somehow or another a little report\
got around last night that I had a way of puttin\'92 in my time with a\
private jug on the sly. \'a0A nigger rousted me out this mornin\'92, and told\
me the people was getherin\'92 on the quiet with their dogs and horses, and\
they\'92d be along pretty soon and give me \'91bout half an hour\'92s start,\
and then run me down if they could; and if they got me they\'92d tar\
and feather me and ride me on a rail, sure. \'a0I didn\'92t wait for no\
breakfast--I warn\'92t hungry.\'94\
\
\'93Old man,\'94 said the young one, \'93I reckon we might double-team it\
together; what do you think?\'94\
\
\'93I ain\'92t undisposed. \'a0What\'92s your line--mainly?\'94\
\
\'93Jour printer by trade; do a little in patent medicines;\
theater-actor--tragedy, you know; take a turn to mesmerism and phrenology\
when there\'92s a chance; teach singing-geography school for a change;\
sling a lecture sometimes--oh, I do lots of things--most anything that\
comes handy, so it ain\'92t work. \'a0What\'92s your lay?\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ve done considerble in the doctoring way in my time. \'a0Layin\'92 on o\'92\
hands is my best holt--for cancer and paralysis, and sich things; and I\
k\'92n tell a fortune pretty good when I\'92ve got somebody along to find out\
the facts for me. \'a0Preachin\'92s my line, too, and workin\'92 camp-meetin\'92s,\
and missionaryin\'92 around.\'94\
\
Nobody never said anything for a while; then the young man hove a sigh\
and says:\
\
\'93Alas!\'94\
\
\'93What \'91re you alassin\'92 about?\'94 says the bald-head.\
\
\'93To think I should have lived to be leading such a life, and be degraded\
down into such company.\'94 \'a0And he begun to wipe the corner of his eye\
with a rag.\
\
\'93Dern your skin, ain\'92t the company good enough for you?\'94 says the\
baldhead, pretty pert and uppish.\
\
\'93Yes, it _is_ good enough for me; it\'92s as good as I deserve; for who\
fetched me so low when I was so high? \'a0I did myself. \'a0I don\'92t blame\
_you_, gentlemen--far from it; I don\'92t blame anybody. \'a0I deserve it\
all. \'a0Let the cold world do its worst; one thing I know--there\'92s a grave\
somewhere for me. The world may go on just as it\'92s always done, and take\
everything from me--loved ones, property, everything; but it can\'92t take\
that. Some day I\'92ll lie down in it and forget it all, and my poor broken\
heart will be at rest.\'94 \'a0He went on a-wiping.\
\
\'93Drot your pore broken heart,\'94 says the baldhead; \'93what are you heaving\
your pore broken heart at _us_ f\'92r? \'a0_we_ hain\'92t done nothing.\'94\
\
\'93No, I know you haven\'92t. \'a0I ain\'92t blaming you, gentlemen. \'a0I brought\
myself down--yes, I did it myself. \'a0It\'92s right I should suffer--perfectly\
right--I don\'92t make any moan.\'94\
\
\'93Brought you down from whar? \'a0Whar was you brought down from?\'94\
\
\'93Ah, you would not believe me; the world never believes--let it pass--\'91tis\
no matter. \'a0The secret of my birth--\'94\
\
\'93The secret of your birth! \'a0Do you mean to say--\'94\
\
\'93Gentlemen,\'94 says the young man, very solemn, \'93I will reveal it to you,\
for I feel I may have confidence in you. \'a0By rights I am a duke!\'94\
\
Jim\'92s eyes bugged out when he heard that; and I reckon mine did, too.\
Then the baldhead says:  \'93No! you can\'92t mean it?\'94\
\
\'93Yes. \'a0My great-grandfather, eldest son of the Duke of Bridgewater, fled\
to this country about the end of the last century, to breathe the pure\
air of freedom; married here, and died, leaving a son, his own father\
dying about the same time. \'a0The second son of the late duke seized the\
titles and estates--the infant real duke was ignored. \'a0I am the lineal\
descendant of that infant--I am the rightful Duke of Bridgewater; and\
here am I, forlorn, torn from my high estate, hunted of men, despised\
by the cold world, ragged, worn, heart-broken, and degraded to the\
companionship of felons on a raft!\'94\
\
Jim pitied him ever so much, and so did I. We tried to comfort him, but\
he said it warn\'92t much use, he couldn\'92t be much comforted; said if we\
was a mind to acknowledge him, that would do him more good than most\
anything else; so we said we would, if he would tell us how. \'a0He said we\
ought to bow when we spoke to him, and say \'93Your Grace,\'94 or \'93My Lord,\'94\
 or \'93Your Lordship\'94--and he wouldn\'92t mind it if we called him plain\
\'93Bridgewater,\'94 which, he said, was a title anyway, and not a name; and\
one of us ought to wait on him at dinner, and do any little thing for\
him he wanted done.\
\
Well, that was all easy, so we done it. \'a0All through dinner Jim stood\
around and waited on him, and says, \'93Will yo\'92 Grace have some o\'92 dis or\
some o\'92 dat?\'94 and so on, and a body could see it was mighty pleasing to\
him.\
\
But the old man got pretty silent by and by--didn\'92t have much to say, and\
didn\'92t look pretty comfortable over all that petting that was going on\
around that duke. \'a0He seemed to have something on his mind. \'a0So, along\
in the afternoon, he says:\
\
\'93Looky here, Bilgewater,\'94 he says, \'93I\'92m nation sorry for you, but you\
ain\'92t the only person that\'92s had troubles like that.\'94\
\
\'93No?\'94\
\
\'93No you ain\'92t. \'a0You ain\'92t the only person that\'92s ben snaked down\
wrongfully out\'92n a high place.\'94\
\
\'93Alas!\'94\
\
\'93No, you ain\'92t the only person that\'92s had a secret of his birth.\'94 \'a0And,\
by jings, _he_ begins to cry.\
\
\'93Hold! \'a0What do you mean?\'94\
\
\'93Bilgewater, kin I trust you?\'94 says the old man, still sort of sobbing.\
\
\'93To the bitter death!\'94 \'a0He took the old man by the hand and squeezed it,\
and says, \'93That secret of your being: \'a0speak!\'94\
\
\'93Bilgewater, I am the late Dauphin!\'94\
\
You bet you, Jim and me stared this time. \'a0Then the duke says:\
\
\'93You are what?\'94\
\
\'93Yes, my friend, it is too true--your eyes is lookin\'92 at this very moment\
on the pore disappeared Dauphin, Looy the Seventeen, son of Looy the\
Sixteen and Marry Antonette.\'94\
\
\'93You! \'a0At your age! \'a0No! \'a0You mean you\'92re the late Charlemagne; you must\
be six or seven hundred years old, at the very least.\'94\
\
\'93Trouble has done it, Bilgewater, trouble has done it; trouble has brung\
these gray hairs and this premature balditude. \'a0Yes, gentlemen, you\
see before you, in blue jeans and misery, the wanderin\'92, exiled,\
trampled-on, and sufferin\'92 rightful King of France.\'94\
\
Well, he cried and took on so that me and Jim didn\'92t know hardly what to\
do, we was so sorry--and so glad and proud we\'92d got him with us, too.\
\'a0So we set in, like we done before with the duke, and tried to comfort\
_him_. But he said it warn\'92t no use, nothing but to be dead and done\
with it all could do him any good; though he said it often made him feel\
easier and better for a while if people treated him according to his\
rights, and got down on one knee to speak to him, and always called him\
\'93Your Majesty,\'94 and waited on him first at meals, and didn\'92t set down\
in his presence till he asked them. So Jim and me set to majestying him,\
and doing this and that and t\'92other for him, and standing up till he\
told us we might set down. \'a0This done him heaps of good, and so he\
got cheerful and comfortable. \'a0But the duke kind of soured on him, and\
didn\'92t look a bit satisfied with the way things was going; still,\
the king acted real friendly towards him, and said the duke\'92s\
great-grandfather and all the other Dukes of Bilgewater was a good\
deal thought of by _his_ father, and was allowed to come to the palace\
considerable; but the duke stayed huffy a good while, till by and by the\
king says:\
\
\'93Like as not we got to be together a blamed long time on this h-yer\
raft, Bilgewater, and so what\'92s the use o\'92 your bein\'92 sour? \'a0It \'91ll only\
make things oncomfortable. \'a0It ain\'92t my fault I warn\'92t born a duke,\
it ain\'92t your fault you warn\'92t born a king--so what\'92s the use to worry?\
\'a0Make the best o\'92 things the way you find \'91em, says I--that\'92s my motto.\
\'a0This ain\'92t no bad thing that we\'92ve struck here--plenty grub and an easy\
life--come, give us your hand, duke, and le\'92s all be friends.\'94\
\
The duke done it, and Jim and me was pretty glad to see it. \'a0It took\
away all the uncomfortableness and we felt mighty good over it, because\
it would a been a miserable business to have any unfriendliness on the\
raft; for what you want, above all things, on a raft, is for everybody\
to be satisfied, and feel right and kind towards the others.\
\
It didn\'92t take me long to make up my mind that these liars warn\'92t no\
kings nor dukes at all, but just low-down humbugs and frauds. \'a0But I\
never said nothing, never let on; kept it to myself; it\'92s the best way;\
then you don\'92t have no quarrels, and don\'92t get into no trouble. \'a0If they\
wanted us to call them kings and dukes, I hadn\'92t no objections, \'91long as\
it would keep peace in the family; and it warn\'92t no use to tell Jim, so\
I didn\'92t tell him. \'a0If I never learnt nothing else out of pap, I learnt\
that the best way to get along with his kind of people is to let them\
have their own way.\
\
\
\
\
CHAPTER XX.\
\
THEY asked us considerable many questions; wanted to know what we\
covered up the raft that way for, and laid by in the daytime instead of\
running--was Jim a runaway nigger? \'a0Says I:\
\
\'93Goodness sakes! would a runaway nigger run _south_?\'94\
\
No, they allowed he wouldn\'92t. \'a0I had to account for things some way, so\
I says:\
\
\'93My folks was living in Pike County, in Missouri, where I was born, and\
they all died off but me and pa and my brother Ike. \'a0Pa, he \'91lowed\
he\'92d break up and go down and live with Uncle Ben, who\'92s got a little\
one-horse place on the river, forty-four mile below Orleans. \'a0Pa was\
pretty poor, and had some debts; so when he\'92d squared up there warn\'92t\
nothing left but sixteen dollars and our nigger, Jim. \'a0That warn\'92t\
enough to take us fourteen hundred mile, deck passage nor no other way.\
\'a0Well, when the river rose pa had a streak of luck one day; he ketched\
this piece of a raft; so we reckoned we\'92d go down to Orleans on it.\
\'a0Pa\'92s luck didn\'92t hold out; a steamboat run over the forrard corner of\
the raft one night, and we all went overboard and dove under the wheel;\
Jim and me come up all right, but pa was drunk, and Ike was only four\
years old, so they never come up no more. \'a0Well, for the next day or\
two we had considerable trouble, because people was always coming out in\
skiffs and trying to take Jim away from me, saying they believed he was\
a runaway nigger. \'a0We don\'92t run daytimes no more now; nights they don\'92t\
bother us.\'94\
\
The duke says:\
\
\'93Leave me alone to cipher out a way so we can run in the daytime if we\
want to. \'a0I\'92ll think the thing over--I\'92ll invent a plan that\'92ll fix it.\
We\'92ll let it alone for to-day, because of course we don\'92t want to go by\
that town yonder in daylight--it mightn\'92t be healthy.\'94\
\
Towards night it begun to darken up and look like rain; the heat\
lightning was squirting around low down in the sky, and the leaves was\
beginning to shiver--it was going to be pretty ugly, it was easy to see\
that. \'a0So the duke and the king went to overhauling our wigwam, to see\
what the beds was like. \'a0My bed was a straw tick better than Jim\'92s,\
which was a corn-shuck tick; there\'92s always cobs around about in a shuck\
tick, and they poke into you and hurt; and when you roll over the dry\
shucks sound like you was rolling over in a pile of dead leaves; it\
makes such a rustling that you wake up. \'a0Well, the duke allowed he would\
take my bed; but the king allowed he wouldn\'92t. \'a0He says:\
\
\'93I should a reckoned the difference in rank would a sejested to you that\
a corn-shuck bed warn\'92t just fitten for me to sleep on. \'a0Your Grace \'91ll\
take the shuck bed yourself.\'94\
\
Jim and me was in a sweat again for a minute, being afraid there was\
going to be some more trouble amongst them; so we was pretty glad when\
the duke says:\
\
\'93\'91Tis my fate to be always ground into the mire under the iron heel of\
oppression. \'a0Misfortune has broken my once haughty spirit; I yield, I\
submit; \'91tis my fate. \'a0I am alone in the world--let me suffer; can bear\
it.\'94\
\
We got away as soon as it was good and dark. \'a0The king told us to stand\
well out towards the middle of the river, and not show a light till we\
got a long ways below the town. \'a0We come in sight of the little bunch of\
lights by and by--that was the town, you know--and slid by, about a half\
a mile out, all right. \'a0When we was three-quarters of a mile below we\
hoisted up our signal lantern; and about ten o\'92clock it come on to rain\
and blow and thunder and lighten like everything; so the king told us\
to both stay on watch till the weather got better; then him and the duke\
crawled into the wigwam and turned in for the night. \'a0It was my watch\
below till twelve, but I wouldn\'92t a turned in anyway if I\'92d had a bed,\
because a body don\'92t see such a storm as that every day in the week, not\
by a long sight. \'a0My souls, how the wind did scream along! \'a0And every\
second or two there\'92d come a glare that lit up the white-caps for a half\
a mile around, and you\'92d see the islands looking dusty through the rain,\
and the trees thrashing around in the wind; then comes a H-WHACK!--bum!\
bum! bumble-umble-um-bum-bum-bum-bum--and the thunder would go rumbling\
and grumbling away, and quit--and then RIP comes another flash and\
another sockdolager. \'a0The waves most washed me off the raft sometimes,\
but I hadn\'92t any clothes on, and didn\'92t mind. \'a0We didn\'92t have no trouble\
about snags; the lightning was glaring and flittering around so constant\
that we could see them plenty soon enough to throw her head this way or\
that and miss them.\
\
I had the middle watch, you know, but I was pretty sleepy by that time,\
so Jim he said he would stand the first half of it for me; he was always\
mighty good that way, Jim was. \'a0I crawled into the wigwam, but the king\
and the duke had their legs sprawled around so there warn\'92t no show for\
me; so I laid outside--I didn\'92t mind the rain, because it was warm, and\
the waves warn\'92t running so high now. \'a0About two they come up again,\
though, and Jim was going to call me; but he changed his mind, because\
he reckoned they warn\'92t high enough yet to do any harm; but he was\
mistaken about that, for pretty soon all of a sudden along comes a\
regular ripper and washed me overboard. \'a0It most killed Jim a-laughing.\
\'a0He was the easiest nigger to laugh that ever was, anyway.\
\
I took the watch, and Jim he laid down and snored away; and by and by\
the storm let up for good and all; and the first cabin-light that showed\
I rousted him out, and we slid the raft into hiding quarters for the\
day.\
\
The king got out an old ratty deck of cards after breakfast, and him\
and the duke played seven-up a while, five cents a game. \'a0Then they got\
tired of it, and allowed they would \'93lay out a campaign,\'94 as they called\
it. The duke went down into his carpet-bag, and fetched up a lot of\
little printed bills and read them out loud. \'a0One bill said, \'93The\
celebrated Dr. Armand de Montalban, of Paris,\'94 would \'93lecture on the\
Science of Phrenology\'94 at such and such a place, on the blank day of\
blank, at ten cents admission, and \'93furnish charts of character at\
twenty-five cents apiece.\'94 \'a0The duke said that was _him_. \'a0In another\
bill he was the \'93world-renowned Shakespearian tragedian, Garrick the\
Younger, of Drury Lane, London.\'94 \'a0In other bills he had a lot of other\
names and done other wonderful things, like finding water and gold with\
a \'93divining-rod,\'94 \'93dissipating witch spells,\'94 and so on. \'a0By and by he\
says:\
\
\'93But the histrionic muse is the darling. \'a0Have you ever trod the boards,\
Royalty?\'94\
\
\'93No,\'94 says the king.\
\
\'93You shall, then, before you\'92re three days older, Fallen Grandeur,\'94 says\
the duke.  \'93The first good town we come to we\'92ll hire a hall and do the\
sword fight in Richard III. and the balcony scene in Romeo and Juliet.\
How does that strike you?\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m in, up to the hub, for anything that will pay, Bilgewater; but, you\
see, I don\'92t know nothing about play-actin\'92, and hain\'92t ever seen much\
of it. \'a0I was too small when pap used to have \'91em at the palace. \'a0Do you\
reckon you can learn me?\'94\
\
\'93Easy!\'94\
\
\'93All right. \'a0I\'92m jist a-freezn\'92 for something fresh, anyway. \'a0Le\'92s\
commence right away.\'94\
\
So the duke he told him all about who Romeo was and who Juliet was, and\
said he was used to being Romeo, so the king could be Juliet.\
\
\'93But if Juliet\'92s such a young gal, duke, my peeled head and my white\
whiskers is goin\'92 to look oncommon odd on her, maybe.\'94\
\
\'93No, don\'92t you worry; these country jakes won\'92t ever think of that.\
Besides, you know, you\'92ll be in costume, and that makes all the\
difference in the world; Juliet\'92s in a balcony, enjoying the moonlight\
before she goes to bed, and she\'92s got on her night-gown and her ruffled\
nightcap. \'a0Here are the costumes for the parts.\'94\
\
He got out two or three curtain-calico suits, which he said was\
meedyevil armor for Richard III. and t\'92other chap, and a long white\
cotton nightshirt and a ruffled nightcap to match. \'a0The king was\
satisfied; so the duke got out his book and read the parts over in the\
most splendid spread-eagle way, prancing around and acting at the same\
time, to show how it had got to be done; then he give the book to the\
king and told him to get his part by heart.\
\
There was a little one-horse town about three mile down the bend, and\
after dinner the duke said he had ciphered out his idea about how to run\
in daylight without it being dangersome for Jim; so he allowed he would\
go down to the town and fix that thing. \'a0The king allowed he would go,\
too, and see if he couldn\'92t strike something. \'a0We was out of coffee, so\
Jim said I better go along with them in the canoe and get some.\
\
When we got there there warn\'92t nobody stirring; streets empty, and\
perfectly dead and still, like Sunday. \'a0We found a sick nigger sunning\
himself in a back yard, and he said everybody that warn\'92t too young or\
too sick or too old was gone to camp-meeting, about two mile back in the\
woods. \'a0The king got the directions, and allowed he\'92d go and work that\
camp-meeting for all it was worth, and I might go, too.\
\
The duke said what he was after was a printing-office. \'a0We found it;\
a little bit of a concern, up over a carpenter shop--carpenters and\
printers all gone to the meeting, and no doors locked. \'a0It was a dirty,\
littered-up place, and had ink marks, and handbills with pictures of\
horses and runaway niggers on them, all over the walls. \'a0The duke shed\
his coat and said he was all right now. \'a0So me and the king lit out for\
the camp-meeting.\
\
We got there in about a half an hour fairly dripping, for it was a most\
awful hot day. \'a0There was as much as a thousand people there from\
twenty mile around. \'a0The woods was full of teams and wagons, hitched\
everywheres, feeding out of the wagon-troughs and stomping to keep\
off the flies. \'a0There was sheds made out of poles and roofed over with\
branches, where they had lemonade and gingerbread to sell, and piles of\
watermelons and green corn and such-like truck.\
\
The preaching was going on under the same kinds of sheds, only they was\
bigger and held crowds of people. \'a0The benches was made out of outside\
slabs of logs, with holes bored in the round side to drive sticks into\
for legs. They didn\'92t have no backs. \'a0The preachers had high platforms\
to stand on at one end of the sheds. \'a0The women had on sun-bonnets;\
and some had linsey-woolsey frocks, some gingham ones, and a few of the\
young ones had on calico. \'a0Some of the young men was barefooted, and\
some of the children didn\'92t have on any clothes but just a tow-linen\
shirt. \'a0Some of the old women was knitting, and some of the young folks\
was courting on the sly.\
\
The first shed we come to the preacher was lining out a hymn. \'a0He lined\
out two lines, everybody sung it, and it was kind of grand to hear it,\
there was so many of them and they done it in such a rousing way; then\
he lined out two more for them to sing--and so on. \'a0The people woke up\
more and more, and sung louder and louder; and towards the end some\
begun to groan, and some begun to shout. \'a0Then the preacher begun to\
preach, and begun in earnest, too; and went weaving first to one side of\
the platform and then the other, and then a-leaning down over the front\
of it, with his arms and his body going all the time, and shouting his\
words out with all his might; and every now and then he would hold up\
his Bible and spread it open, and kind of pass it around this way and\
that, shouting, \'93It\'92s the brazen serpent in the wilderness! \'a0Look upon\
it and live!\'94 \'a0And people would shout out, \'93Glory!--A-a-_men_!\'94 \'a0And so\
he went on, and the people groaning and crying and saying amen:\
\
\'93Oh, come to the mourners\'92 bench! come, black with sin! (_Amen_!) come,\
sick and sore! (_Amen_!) come, lame and halt and blind! (_Amen_!) come,\
pore and needy, sunk in shame! (_A-A-Men_!) come, all that\'92s worn and\
soiled and suffering!--come with a broken spirit! come with a contrite\
heart! come in your rags and sin and dirt! the waters that cleanse\
is free, the door of heaven stands open--oh, enter in and be at rest!\'94\
 (_A-A-Men_! \'a0_Glory, Glory Hallelujah!_)\
\
And so on. \'a0You couldn\'92t make out what the preacher said any more, on\
account of the shouting and crying. \'a0Folks got up everywheres in the\
crowd, and worked their way just by main strength to the mourners\'92\
bench, with the tears running down their faces; and when all the\
mourners had got up there to the front benches in a crowd, they sung and\
shouted and flung themselves down on the straw, just crazy and wild.\
\
Well, the first I knowed the king got a-going, and you could hear him\
over everybody; and next he went a-charging up on to the platform, and\
the preacher he begged him to speak to the people, and he done it. \'a0He\
told them he was a pirate--been a pirate for thirty years out in the\
Indian Ocean--and his crew was thinned out considerable last spring in\
a fight, and he was home now to take out some fresh men, and thanks to\
goodness he\'92d been robbed last night and put ashore off of a steamboat\
without a cent, and he was glad of it; it was the blessedest thing that\
ever happened to him, because he was a changed man now, and happy for\
the first time in his life; and, poor as he was, he was going to start\
right off and work his way back to the Indian Ocean, and put in the rest\
of his life trying to turn the pirates into the true path; for he could\
do it better than anybody else, being acquainted with all pirate crews\
in that ocean; and though it would take him a long time to get there\
without money, he would get there anyway, and every time he convinced\
a pirate he would say to him, \'93Don\'92t you thank me, don\'92t you give me no\
credit; it all belongs to them dear people in Pokeville camp-meeting,\
natural brothers and benefactors of the race, and that dear preacher\
there, the truest friend a pirate ever had!\'94\
\
And then he busted into tears, and so did everybody. \'a0Then somebody\
sings out, \'93Take up a collection for him, take up a collection!\'94 \'a0Well,\
a half a dozen made a jump to do it, but somebody sings out, \'93Let _him_\
pass the hat around!\'94 \'a0Then everybody said it, the preacher too.\
\
So the king went all through the crowd with his hat swabbing his eyes,\
and blessing the people and praising them and thanking them for being\
so good to the poor pirates away off there; and every little while the\
prettiest kind of girls, with the tears running down their cheeks, would\
up and ask him would he let them kiss him for to remember him by; and he\
always done it; and some of them he hugged and kissed as many as five or\
six times--and he was invited to stay a week; and everybody wanted him to\
live in their houses, and said they\'92d think it was an honor; but he said\
as this was the last day of the camp-meeting he couldn\'92t do no good, and\
besides he was in a sweat to get to the Indian Ocean right off and go to\
work on the pirates.\
\
When we got back to the raft and he come to count up he found he had\
collected eighty-seven dollars and seventy-five cents. \'a0And then he had\
fetched away a three-gallon jug of whisky, too, that he found under a\
wagon when he was starting home through the woods. \'a0The king said,\
take it all around, it laid over any day he\'92d ever put in in the\
missionarying line. \'a0He said it warn\'92t no use talking, heathens don\'92t\
amount to shucks alongside of pirates to work a camp-meeting with.\
\
The duke was thinking _he\'92d_ been doing pretty well till the king come\
to show up, but after that he didn\'92t think so so much. \'a0He had set\
up and printed off two little jobs for farmers in that\
printing-office--horse bills--and took the money, four dollars. \'a0And he\
had got in ten dollars\'92 worth of advertisements for the paper, which he\
said he would put in for four dollars if they would pay in advance--so\
they done it. The price of the paper was two dollars a year, but he took\
in three subscriptions for half a dollar apiece on condition of them\
paying him in advance; they were going to pay in cordwood and onions as\
usual, but he said he had just bought the concern and knocked down the\
price as low as he could afford it, and was going to run it for cash.\
\'a0He set up a little piece of poetry, which he made, himself, out of\
his own head--three verses--kind of sweet and saddish--the name of it was,\
\'93Yes, crush, cold world, this breaking heart\'94--and he left that all set\
up and ready to print in the paper, and didn\'92t charge nothing for it.\
\'a0Well, he took in nine dollars and a half, and said he\'92d done a pretty\
square day\'92s work for it.\
\
Then he showed us another little job he\'92d printed and hadn\'92t charged\
for, because it was for us. \'a0It had a picture of a runaway nigger with\
a bundle on a stick over his shoulder, and \'93$200 reward\'94 under it. \'a0The\
reading was all about Jim, and just described him to a dot. \'a0It said\
he run away from St. Jacques\'92 plantation, forty mile below New Orleans,\
last winter, and likely went north, and whoever would catch him and send\
him back he could have the reward and expenses.\
\
\'93Now,\'94 says the duke, \'93after to-night we can run in the daytime if we\
want to. \'a0Whenever we see anybody coming we can tie Jim hand and foot\
with a rope, and lay him in the wigwam and show this handbill and say we\
captured him up the river, and were too poor to travel on a steamboat,\
so we got this little raft on credit from our friends and are going down\
to get the reward. \'a0Handcuffs and chains would look still better on Jim,\
but it wouldn\'92t go well with the story of us being so poor. \'a0Too much\
like jewelry. \'a0Ropes are the correct thing--we must preserve the unities,\
as we say on the boards.\'94\
\
We all said the duke was pretty smart, and there couldn\'92t be no trouble\
about running daytimes. \'a0We judged we could make miles enough that night\
to get out of the reach of the powwow we reckoned the duke\'92s work in\
the printing office was going to make in that little town; then we could\
boom right along if we wanted to.\
\
We laid low and kept still, and never shoved out till nearly ten\
o\'92clock; then we slid by, pretty wide away from the town, and didn\'92t\
hoist our lantern till we was clear out of sight of it.\
\
When Jim called me to take the watch at four in the morning, he says:\
\
\'93Huck, does you reck\'92n we gwyne to run acrost any mo\'92 kings on dis\
trip?\'94\
\
\'93No,\'94 I says, \'93I reckon not.\'94\
\
\'93Well,\'94 says he, \'93dat\'92s all right, den. \'a0I doan\'92 mine one er two kings,\
but dat\'92s enough. \'a0Dis one\'92s powerful drunk, en de duke ain\'92 much\
better.\'94\
\
I found Jim had been trying to get him to talk French, so he could hear\
what it was like; but he said he had been in this country so long, and\
had so much trouble, he\'92d forgot it.\
\
\
\
\
CHAPTER XXI.\
\
IT was after sun-up now, but we went right on and didn\'92t tie up. \'a0The\
king and the duke turned out by and by looking pretty rusty; but after\
they\'92d jumped overboard and took a swim it chippered them up a good\
deal. After breakfast the king he took a seat on the corner of the raft,\
and pulled off his boots and rolled up his britches, and let his legs\
dangle in the water, so as to be comfortable, and lit his pipe, and went\
to getting his Romeo and Juliet by heart. \'a0When he had got it pretty\
good him and the duke begun to practice it together. \'a0The duke had to\
learn him over and over again how to say every speech; and he made him\
sigh, and put his hand on his heart, and after a while he said he done\
it pretty well; \'93only,\'94 he says, \'93you mustn\'92t bellow out _Romeo_!\
that way, like a bull--you must say it soft and sick and languishy,\
so--R-o-o-meo! that is the idea; for Juliet\'92s a dear sweet mere child of\
a girl, you know, and she doesn\'92t bray like a jackass.\'94\
\
Well, next they got out a couple of long swords that the duke made out\
of oak laths, and begun to practice the sword fight--the duke called\
himself Richard III.; and the way they laid on and pranced around\
the raft was grand to see. \'a0But by and by the king tripped and fell\
overboard, and after that they took a rest, and had a talk about all\
kinds of adventures they\'92d had in other times along the river.\
\
After dinner the duke says:\
\
\'93Well, Capet, we\'92ll want to make this a first-class show, you know, so\
I guess we\'92ll add a little more to it. \'a0We want a little something to\
answer encores with, anyway.\'94\
\
\'93What\'92s onkores, Bilgewater?\'94\
\
The duke told him, and then says:\
\
\'93I\'92ll answer by doing the Highland fling or the sailor\'92s hornpipe; and\
you--well, let me see--oh, I\'92ve got it--you can do Hamlet\'92s soliloquy.\'94\
\
\'93Hamlet\'92s which?\'94\
\
\'93Hamlet\'92s soliloquy, you know; the most celebrated thing in Shakespeare.\
Ah, it\'92s sublime, sublime! \'a0Always fetches the house. \'a0I haven\'92t got\
it in the book--I\'92ve only got one volume--but I reckon I can piece it out\
from memory. \'a0I\'92ll just walk up and down a minute, and see if I can call\
it back from recollection\'92s vaults.\'94\
\
So he went to marching up and down, thinking, and frowning horrible\
every now and then; then he would hoist up his eyebrows; next he would\
squeeze his hand on his forehead and stagger back and kind of moan; next\
he would sigh, and next he\'92d let on to drop a tear. \'a0It was beautiful\
to see him. By and by he got it. \'a0He told us to give attention. \'a0Then\
he strikes a most noble attitude, with one leg shoved forwards, and his\
arms stretched away up, and his head tilted back, looking up at the sky;\
and then he begins to rip and rave and grit his teeth; and after that,\
all through his speech, he howled, and spread around, and swelled up his\
chest, and just knocked the spots out of any acting ever I see before.\
\'a0This is the speech--I learned it, easy enough, while he was learning it\
to the king:\
\
To be, or not to be; that is the bare bodkin That makes calamity of\
so long life; For who would fardels bear, till Birnam Wood do come\
to Dunsinane, But that the fear of something after death Murders the\
innocent sleep, Great nature\'92s second course, And makes us rather sling\
the arrows of outrageous fortune Than fly to others that we know not of.\
There\'92s the respect must give us pause: Wake Duncan with thy knocking! I\
would thou couldst; For who would bear the whips and scorns of time, The\
oppressor\'92s wrong, the proud man\'92s contumely, The law\'92s delay, and the\
quietus which his pangs might take. In the dead waste and middle of the\
night, when churchyards yawn In customary suits of solemn black, But\
that the undiscovered country from whose bourne no traveler returns,\
Breathes forth contagion on the world, And thus the native hue of\
resolution, like the poor cat i\'92 the adage, Is sicklied o\'92er with care.\
And all the clouds that lowered o\'92er our housetops, With this\
regard their currents turn awry, And lose the name of action. \'91Tis a\
consummation devoutly to be wished. But soft you, the fair Ophelia: Ope\
not thy ponderous and marble jaws. But get thee to a nunnery&mdash;go!\
\
Well, the old man he liked that speech, and he mighty soon got it so he\
could do it first rate. It seemed like he was just born for it; and when\
he had his hand in and was excited, it was perfectly lovely the way he\
would rip and tear and rair up behind when he was getting it off.\
\
The first chance we got, the duke he had some show bills printed; and\
after that, for two or three days as we floated along, the raft was a\
most uncommon lively place, for there warn\'92t nothing but sword-fighting\
and rehearsing--as the duke called it--going on all the time. One morning,\
when we was pretty well down the State of Arkansaw, we come in sight\
of a little one-horse town in a big bend; so we tied up about\
three-quarters of a mile above it, in the mouth of a crick which was\
shut in like a tunnel by the cypress trees, and all of us but Jim took\
the canoe and went down there to see if there was any chance in that\
place for our show.\
\
We struck it mighty lucky; there was going to be a circus there that\
afternoon, and the country people was already beginning to come in, in\
all kinds of old shackly wagons, and on horses. The circus would leave\
before night, so our show would have a pretty good chance. The duke he\
hired the court house, and we went around and stuck up our bills. They\
read like this:\
\
Shaksperean Revival!!!\
\
Wonderful Attraction!\
\
For One Night Only! The world renowned tragedians,\
\
David Garrick the younger, of Drury Lane Theatre, London,\
\
and\
\
Edmund Kean the elder, of the Royal Haymarket Theatre, Whitechapel,\
Pudding Lane, Piccadilly, London, and the Royal Continental Theatres, in\
their sublime Shaksperean Spectacle entitled The Balcony Scene in\
\
Romeo and Juliet!!!\
\
Romeo...................................... Mr. Garrick.\
\
Juliet..................................... Mr. Kean.\
\
Assisted by the whole strength of the company!\
\
New costumes, new scenery, new appointments!\
\
Also:\
\
The thrilling, masterly, and blood-curdling Broad-sword conflict In\
Richard III.!!!\
\
Richard III................................ Mr. Garrick.\
\
Richmond................................... Mr. Kean.\
\
also:\
\
(by special request,)\
\
Hamlet\'92s Immortal Soliloquy!!\
\
By the Illustrious Kean!\
\
Done by him 300 consecutive nights in Paris!\
\
For One Night Only,\
\
On account of imperative European engagements!\
\
Admission 25 cents; children and servants, 10 cents.\
\
Then we went loafing around the town. The stores and houses was most all\
old shackly dried-up frame concerns that hadn\'92t ever been painted; they\
was set up three or four foot above ground on stilts, so as to be out of\
reach of the water when the river was overflowed. The houses had little\
gardens around them, but they didn\'92t seem to raise hardly anything in\
them but jimpson weeds, and sunflowers, and ash-piles, and old curled-up\
boots and shoes, and pieces of bottles, and rags, and played-out\
tin-ware. The fences was made of different kinds of boards, nailed on\
at different times; and they leaned every which-way, and had gates that\
didn\'92t generly have but one hinge--a leather one. Some of the fences\
had been whitewashed, some time or another, but the duke said it was in\
Clumbus\'92s time, like enough. There was generly hogs in the garden, and\
people driving them out.\
\
All the stores was along one street. \'a0They had white domestic awnings in\
front, and the country people hitched their horses to the awning-posts.\
There was empty drygoods boxes under the awnings, and loafers roosting\
on them all day long, whittling them with their Barlow knives; and\
chawing tobacco, and gaping and yawning and stretching--a mighty ornery\
lot. They generly had on yellow straw hats most as wide as an umbrella,\
but didn\'92t wear no coats nor waistcoats, they called one another Bill,\
and Buck, and Hank, and Joe, and Andy, and talked lazy and drawly, and\
used considerable many cuss words. \'a0There was as many as one loafer\
leaning up against every awning-post, and he most always had his hands\
in his britches-pockets, except when he fetched them out to lend a chaw\
of tobacco or scratch. \'a0What a body was hearing amongst them all the\
time was:\
\
\'93Gimme a chaw \'91v tobacker, Hank.\'94\
\
\'93Cain\'92t; I hain\'92t got but one chaw left. \'a0Ask Bill.\'94\
\
Maybe Bill he gives him a chaw; maybe he lies and says he ain\'92t got\
none. Some of them kinds of loafers never has a cent in the world, nor a\
chaw of tobacco of their own. \'a0They get all their chawing by borrowing;\
they say to a fellow, \'93I wisht you\'92d len\'92 me a chaw, Jack, I jist this\
minute give Ben Thompson the last chaw I had\'94--which is a lie pretty\
much everytime; it don\'92t fool nobody but a stranger; but Jack ain\'92t no\
stranger, so he says:\
\
\'93_You_ give him a chaw, did you? \'a0So did your sister\'92s cat\'92s\
grandmother. You pay me back the chaws you\'92ve awready borry\'92d off\'92n me,\
Lafe Buckner, then I\'92ll loan you one or two ton of it, and won\'92t charge\
you no back intrust, nuther.\'94\
\
\'93Well, I _did_ pay you back some of it wunst.\'94\
\
\'93Yes, you did--\'91bout six chaws. \'a0You borry\'92d store tobacker and paid back\
nigger-head.\'94\
\
Store tobacco is flat black plug, but these fellows mostly chaws the\
natural leaf twisted. \'a0When they borrow a chaw they don\'92t generly cut it\
off with a knife, but set the plug in between their teeth, and gnaw with\
their teeth and tug at the plug with their hands till they get it in\
two; then sometimes the one that owns the tobacco looks mournful at it\
when it\'92s handed back, and says, sarcastic:\
\
\'93Here, gimme the _chaw_, and you take the _plug_.\'94\
\
All the streets and lanes was just mud; they warn\'92t nothing else _but_\
mud--mud as black as tar and nigh about a foot deep in some places,\
and two or three inches deep in _all_ the places. \'a0The hogs loafed and\
grunted around everywheres. \'a0You\'92d see a muddy sow and a litter of pigs\
come lazying along the street and whollop herself right down in the way,\
where folks had to walk around her, and she\'92d stretch out and shut her\
eyes and wave her ears whilst the pigs was milking her, and look as\
happy as if she was on salary. And pretty soon you\'92d hear a loafer\
sing out, \'93Hi! \'a0_so_ boy! sick him, Tige!\'94 and away the sow would go,\
squealing most horrible, with a dog or two swinging to each ear, and\
three or four dozen more a-coming; and then you would see all the\
loafers get up and watch the thing out of sight, and laugh at the fun\
and look grateful for the noise. \'a0Then they\'92d settle back again till\
there was a dog fight. \'a0There couldn\'92t anything wake them up all over,\
and make them happy all over, like a dog fight--unless it might be\
putting turpentine on a stray dog and setting fire to him, or tying a\
tin pan to his tail and see him run himself to death.\
\
On the river front some of the houses was sticking out over the bank,\
and they was bowed and bent, and about ready to tumble in. The people\
had moved out of them. \'a0The bank was caved away under one corner of some\
others, and that corner was hanging over. \'a0People lived in them yet, but\
it was dangersome, because sometimes a strip of land as wide as a house\
caves in at a time. \'a0Sometimes a belt of land a quarter of a mile deep\
will start in and cave along and cave along till it all caves into the\
river in one summer. Such a town as that has to be always moving back,\
and back, and back, because the river\'92s always gnawing at it.\
\
The nearer it got to noon that day the thicker and thicker was the\
wagons and horses in the streets, and more coming all the time.\
\'a0Families fetched their dinners with them from the country, and eat them\
in the wagons. \'a0There was considerable whisky drinking going on, and I\
seen three fights. \'a0By and by somebody sings out:\
\
\'93Here comes old Boggs!--in from the country for his little old monthly\
drunk; here he comes, boys!\'94\
\
All the loafers looked glad; I reckoned they was used to having fun out\
of Boggs. \'a0One of them says:\
\
\'93Wonder who he\'92s a-gwyne to chaw up this time. \'a0If he\'92d a-chawed up all\
the men he\'92s ben a-gwyne to chaw up in the last twenty year he\'92d have\
considerable ruputation now.\'94\
\
Another one says, \'93I wisht old Boggs \'91d threaten me, \'91cuz then I\'92d know\
I warn\'92t gwyne to die for a thousan\'92 year.\'94\
\
Boggs comes a-tearing along on his horse, whooping and yelling like an\
Injun, and singing out:\
\
\'93Cler the track, thar. \'a0I\'92m on the waw-path, and the price uv coffins is\
a-gwyne to raise.\'94\
\
He was drunk, and weaving about in his saddle; he was over fifty year\
old, and had a very red face. \'a0Everybody yelled at him and laughed at\
him and sassed him, and he sassed back, and said he\'92d attend to them and\
lay them out in their regular turns, but he couldn\'92t wait now because\
he\'92d come to town to kill old Colonel Sherburn, and his motto was, \'93Meat\
first, and spoon vittles to top off on.\'94\
\
He see me, and rode up and says:\
\
\'93Whar\'92d you come f\'92m, boy? \'a0You prepared to die?\'94\
\
Then he rode on. \'a0I was scared, but a man says:\
\
\'93He don\'92t mean nothing; he\'92s always a-carryin\'92 on like that when he\'92s\
drunk. \'a0He\'92s the best naturedest old fool in Arkansaw--never hurt nobody,\
drunk nor sober.\'94\
\
Boggs rode up before the biggest store in town, and bent his head down\
so he could see under the curtain of the awning and yells:\
\
\'93Come out here, Sherburn! Come out and meet the man you\'92ve swindled.\
You\'92re the houn\'92 I\'92m after, and I\'92m a-gwyne to have you, too!\'94\
\
And so he went on, calling Sherburn everything he could lay his tongue\
to, and the whole street packed with people listening and laughing and\
going on. \'a0By and by a proud-looking man about fifty-five--and he was a\
heap the best dressed man in that town, too--steps out of the store, and\
the crowd drops back on each side to let him come. \'a0He says to Boggs,\
mighty ca\'92m and slow--he says:\
\
\'93I\'92m tired of this, but I\'92ll endure it till one o\'92clock. \'a0Till one\
o\'92clock, mind--no longer. \'a0If you open your mouth against me only once\
after that time you can\'92t travel so far but I will find you.\'94\
\
Then he turns and goes in. \'a0The crowd looked mighty sober; nobody\
stirred, and there warn\'92t no more laughing. \'a0Boggs rode off\
blackguarding Sherburn as loud as he could yell, all down the street;\
and pretty soon back he comes and stops before the store, still keeping\
it up. \'a0Some men crowded around him and tried to get him to shut up,\
but he wouldn\'92t; they told him it would be one o\'92clock in about fifteen\
minutes, and so he _must_ go home--he must go right away. \'a0But it didn\'92t\
do no good. \'a0He cussed away with all his might, and throwed his hat down\
in the mud and rode over it, and pretty soon away he went a-raging down\
the street again, with his gray hair a-flying. Everybody that could get\
a chance at him tried their best to coax him off of his horse so they\
could lock him up and get him sober; but it warn\'92t no use--up the street\
he would tear again, and give Sherburn another cussing. \'a0By and by\
somebody says:\
\
\'93Go for his daughter!--quick, go for his daughter; sometimes he\'92ll listen\
to her. \'a0If anybody can persuade him, she can.\'94\
\
So somebody started on a run. \'a0I walked down street a ways and stopped.\
In about five or ten minutes here comes Boggs again, but not on his\
horse. \'a0He was a-reeling across the street towards me, bare-headed, with\
a friend on both sides of him a-holt of his arms and hurrying him along.\
He was quiet, and looked uneasy; and he warn\'92t hanging back any, but was\
doing some of the hurrying himself. \'a0Somebody sings out:\
\
\'93Boggs!\'94\
\
I looked over there to see who said it, and it was that Colonel\
Sherburn. He was standing perfectly still in the street, and had a\
pistol raised in his right hand--not aiming it, but holding it out with\
the barrel tilted up towards the sky. \'a0The same second I see a young\
girl coming on the run, and two men with her. \'a0Boggs and the men turned\
round to see who called him, and when they see the pistol the men\
jumped to one side, and the pistol-barrel come down slow and steady to\
a level--both barrels cocked. Boggs throws up both of his hands and says,\
\'93O Lord, don\'92t shoot!\'94 \'a0Bang! goes the first shot, and he staggers back,\
clawing at the air--bang! goes the second one, and he tumbles backwards\
on to the ground, heavy and solid, with his arms spread out. \'a0That young\
girl screamed out and comes rushing, and down she throws herself on her\
father, crying, and saying, \'93Oh, he\'92s killed him, he\'92s killed him!\'94 \'a0The\
crowd closed up around them, and shouldered and jammed one another, with\
their necks stretched, trying to see, and people on the inside trying to\
shove them back and shouting, \'93Back, back! give him air, give him air!\'94\
\
Colonel Sherburn he tossed his pistol on to the ground, and turned\
around on his heels and walked off.\
\
They took Boggs to a little drug store, the crowd pressing around just\
the same, and the whole town following, and I rushed and got a good\
place at the window, where I was close to him and could see in. \'a0They\
laid him on the floor and put one large Bible under his head, and opened\
another one and spread it on his breast; but they tore open his shirt\
first, and I seen where one of the bullets went in. \'a0He made about a\
dozen long gasps, his breast lifting the Bible up when he drawed in his\
breath, and letting it down again when he breathed it out--and after that\
he laid still; he was dead. \'a0Then they pulled his daughter away from\
him, screaming and crying, and took her off. \'a0She was about sixteen, and\
very sweet and gentle looking, but awful pale and scared.\
\
Well, pretty soon the whole town was there, squirming and scrouging and\
pushing and shoving to get at the window and have a look, but people\
that had the places wouldn\'92t give them up, and folks behind them was\
saying all the time, \'93Say, now, you\'92ve looked enough, you fellows;\
\'91tain\'92t right and \'91tain\'92t fair for you to stay thar all the time, and\
never give nobody a chance; other folks has their rights as well as\
you.\'94\
\
There was considerable jawing back, so I slid out, thinking maybe\
there was going to be trouble. \'a0The streets was full, and everybody was\
excited. Everybody that seen the shooting was telling how it happened,\
and there was a big crowd packed around each one of these fellows,\
stretching their necks and listening. \'a0One long, lanky man, with long\
hair and a big white fur stovepipe hat on the back of his head, and a\
crooked-handled cane, marked out the places on the ground where Boggs\
stood and where Sherburn stood, and the people following him around from\
one place to t\'92other and watching everything he done, and bobbing their\
heads to show they understood, and stooping a little and resting their\
hands on their thighs to watch him mark the places on the ground with\
his cane; and then he stood up straight and stiff where Sherburn had\
stood, frowning and having his hat-brim down over his eyes, and sung\
out, \'93Boggs!\'94 and then fetched his cane down slow to a level, and says\
\'93Bang!\'94 staggered backwards, says \'93Bang!\'94 again, and fell down flat on\
his back. The people that had seen the thing said he done it perfect;\
said it was just exactly the way it all happened. \'a0Then as much as a\
dozen people got out their bottles and treated him.\
\
Well, by and by somebody said Sherburn ought to be lynched. \'a0In about a\
minute everybody was saying it; so away they went, mad and yelling, and\
snatching down every clothes-line they come to to do the hanging with.\
\
\
\
\
CHAPTER XXII.\
\
THEY swarmed up towards Sherburn\'92s house, a-whooping and raging like\
Injuns, and everything had to clear the way or get run over and tromped\
to mush, and it was awful to see. \'a0Children was heeling it ahead of the\
mob, screaming and trying to get out of the way; and every window along\
the road was full of women\'92s heads, and there was nigger boys in every\
tree, and bucks and wenches looking over every fence; and as soon as the\
mob would get nearly to them they would break and skaddle back out of\
reach. \'a0Lots of the women and girls was crying and taking on, scared\
most to death.\
\
They swarmed up in front of Sherburn\'92s palings as thick as they could\
jam together, and you couldn\'92t hear yourself think for the noise. \'a0It\
was a little twenty-foot yard. \'a0Some sung out \'93Tear down the fence! tear\
down the fence!\'94 \'a0Then there was a racket of ripping and tearing and\
smashing, and down she goes, and the front wall of the crowd begins to\
roll in like a wave.\
\
Just then Sherburn steps out on to the roof of his little front porch,\
with a double-barrel gun in his hand, and takes his stand, perfectly\
ca\'92m and deliberate, not saying a word. \'a0The racket stopped, and the\
wave sucked back.\
\
Sherburn never said a word--just stood there, looking down. \'a0The\
stillness was awful creepy and uncomfortable. \'a0Sherburn run his eye slow\
along the crowd; and wherever it struck the people tried a little to\
out-gaze him, but they couldn\'92t; they dropped their eyes and looked\
sneaky. Then pretty soon Sherburn sort of laughed; not the pleasant\
kind, but the kind that makes you feel like when you are eating bread\
that\'92s got sand in it.\
\
Then he says, slow and scornful:\
\
\'93The idea of _you_ lynching anybody! \'a0It\'92s amusing. \'a0The idea of you\
thinking you had pluck enough to lynch a _man_! \'a0Because you\'92re brave\
enough to tar and feather poor friendless cast-out women that come along\
here, did that make you think you had grit enough to lay your hands on a\
_man_? \'a0Why, a _man\'92s_ safe in the hands of ten thousand of your kind--as\
long as it\'92s daytime and you\'92re not behind him.\
\
\'93Do I know you? \'a0I know you clear through. I was born and raised in the\
South, and I\'92ve lived in the North; so I know the average all around.\
The average man\'92s a coward. \'a0In the North he lets anybody walk over him\
that wants to, and goes home and prays for a humble spirit to bear it.\
In the South one man all by himself, has stopped a stage full of men\
in the daytime, and robbed the lot. \'a0Your newspapers call you a\
brave people so much that you think you are braver than any other\
people--whereas you\'92re just _as_ brave, and no braver. \'a0Why don\'92t your\
juries hang murderers? \'a0Because they\'92re afraid the man\'92s friends will\
shoot them in the back, in the dark--and it\'92s just what they _would_ do.\
\
\'93So they always acquit; and then a _man_ goes in the night, with a\
hundred masked cowards at his back and lynches the rascal. \'a0Your mistake\
is, that you didn\'92t bring a man with you; that\'92s one mistake, and the\
other is that you didn\'92t come in the dark and fetch your masks. \'a0You\
brought _part_ of a man--Buck Harkness, there--and if you hadn\'92t had him\
to start you, you\'92d a taken it out in blowing.\
\
\'93You didn\'92t want to come. \'a0The average man don\'92t like trouble and\
danger. _You_ don\'92t like trouble and danger. \'a0But if only _half_ a\
man--like Buck Harkness, there--shouts \'91Lynch him! lynch him!\'92 you\'92re\
afraid to back down--afraid you\'92ll be found out to be what you\
are--_cowards_--and so you raise a yell, and hang yourselves on to that\
half-a-man\'92s coat-tail, and come raging up here, swearing what big\
things you\'92re going to do. The pitifulest thing out is a mob; that\'92s\
what an army is--a mob; they don\'92t fight with courage that\'92s born in\
them, but with courage that\'92s borrowed from their mass, and from their\
officers. \'a0But a mob without any _man_ at the head of it is _beneath_\
pitifulness. \'a0Now the thing for _you_ to do is to droop your tails and\
go home and crawl in a hole. \'a0If any real lynching\'92s going to be done it\
will be done in the dark, Southern fashion; and when they come they\'92ll\
bring their masks, and fetch a _man_ along. \'a0Now _leave_--and take your\
half-a-man with you\'94--tossing his gun up across his left arm and cocking\
it when he says this.\
\
The crowd washed back sudden, and then broke all apart, and went tearing\
off every which way, and Buck Harkness he heeled it after them, looking\
tolerable cheap. \'a0I could a stayed if I wanted to, but I didn\'92t want to.\
\
I went to the circus and loafed around the back side till the watchman\
went by, and then dived in under the tent. \'a0I had my twenty-dollar gold\
piece and some other money, but I reckoned I better save it, because\
there ain\'92t no telling how soon you are going to need it, away from\
home and amongst strangers that way. \'a0You can\'92t be too careful. \'a0I ain\'92t\
opposed to spending money on circuses when there ain\'92t no other way, but\
there ain\'92t no use in _wasting_ it on them.\
\
It was a real bully circus. \'a0It was the splendidest sight that ever was\
when they all come riding in, two and two, a gentleman and lady, side\
by side, the men just in their drawers and undershirts, and no shoes\
nor stirrups, and resting their hands on their thighs easy and\
comfortable--there must a been twenty of them--and every lady with a\
lovely complexion, and perfectly beautiful, and looking just like a gang\
of real sure-enough queens, and dressed in clothes that cost millions of\
dollars, and just littered with diamonds. \'a0It was a powerful fine sight;\
I never see anything so lovely. \'a0And then one by one they got up\
and stood, and went a-weaving around the ring so gentle and wavy and\
graceful, the men looking ever so tall and airy and straight, with their\
heads bobbing and skimming along, away up there under the tent-roof, and\
every lady\'92s rose-leafy dress flapping soft and silky around her hips,\
and she looking like the most loveliest parasol.\
\
And then faster and faster they went, all of them dancing, first one\
foot out in the air and then the other, the horses leaning more and\
more, and the ringmaster going round and round the center-pole, cracking\
his whip and shouting \'93Hi!--hi!\'94 and the clown cracking jokes behind\
him; and by and by all hands dropped the reins, and every lady put her\
knuckles on her hips and every gentleman folded his arms, and then how\
the horses did lean over and hump themselves! \'a0And so one after the\
other they all skipped off into the ring, and made the sweetest bow I\
ever see, and then scampered out, and everybody clapped their hands and\
went just about wild.\
\
Well, all through the circus they done the most astonishing things; and\
all the time that clown carried on so it most killed the people. \'a0The\
ringmaster couldn\'92t ever say a word to him but he was back at him quick\
as a wink with the funniest things a body ever said; and how he ever\
_could_ think of so many of them, and so sudden and so pat, was what I\
couldn\'92t noway understand. Why, I couldn\'92t a thought of them in a year.\
And by and by a drunk man tried to get into the ring--said he wanted to\
ride; said he could ride as well as anybody that ever was. \'a0They argued\
and tried to keep him out, but he wouldn\'92t listen, and the whole show\
come to a standstill. \'a0Then the people begun to holler at him and make\
fun of him, and that made him mad, and he begun to rip and tear; so that\
stirred up the people, and a lot of men begun to pile down off of the\
benches and swarm towards the ring, saying, \'93Knock him down! throw him\
out!\'94 and one or two women begun to scream. \'a0So, then, the ringmaster\
he made a little speech, and said he hoped there wouldn\'92t be no\
disturbance, and if the man would promise he wouldn\'92t make no more\
trouble he would let him ride if he thought he could stay on the horse.\
\'a0So everybody laughed and said all right, and the man got on. The minute\
he was on, the horse begun to rip and tear and jump and cavort around,\
with two circus men hanging on to his bridle trying to hold him, and the\
drunk man hanging on to his neck, and his heels flying in the air every\
jump, and the whole crowd of people standing up shouting and laughing\
till tears rolled down. \'a0And at last, sure enough, all the circus men\
could do, the horse broke loose, and away he went like the very nation,\
round and round the ring, with that sot laying down on him and hanging\
to his neck, with first one leg hanging most to the ground on one side,\
and then t\'92other one on t\'92other side, and the people just crazy. \'a0It\
warn\'92t funny to me, though; I was all of a tremble to see his danger.\
\'a0But pretty soon he struggled up astraddle and grabbed the bridle,\
a-reeling this way and that; and the next minute he sprung up and\
dropped the bridle and stood! and the horse a-going like a house afire\
too. \'a0He just stood up there, a-sailing around as easy and comfortable\
as if he warn\'92t ever drunk in his life--and then he begun to pull off his\
clothes and sling them. \'a0He shed them so thick they kind of clogged up\
the air, and altogether he shed seventeen suits. And, then, there he\
was, slim and handsome, and dressed the gaudiest and prettiest you\
ever saw, and he lit into that horse with his whip and made him fairly\
hum--and finally skipped off, and made his bow and danced off to\
the dressing-room, and everybody just a-howling with pleasure and\
astonishment.\
\
Then the ringmaster he see how he had been fooled, and he _was_ the\
sickest ringmaster you ever see, I reckon. \'a0Why, it was one of his own\
men! \'a0He had got up that joke all out of his own head, and never let on\
to nobody. Well, I felt sheepish enough to be took in so, but I wouldn\'92t\
a been in that ringmaster\'92s place, not for a thousand dollars. \'a0I don\'92t\
know; there may be bullier circuses than what that one was, but I\
never struck them yet. Anyways, it was plenty good enough for _me_; and\
wherever I run across it, it can have all of _my_ custom every time.\
\
Well, that night we had _our_ show; but there warn\'92t only about twelve\
people there--just enough to pay expenses. \'a0And they laughed all the\
time, and that made the duke mad; and everybody left, anyway, before\
the show was over, but one boy which was asleep. \'a0So the duke said these\
Arkansaw lunkheads couldn\'92t come up to Shakespeare; what they wanted\
was low comedy--and maybe something ruther worse than low comedy, he\
reckoned. \'a0He said he could size their style. \'a0So next morning he got\
some big sheets of wrapping paper and some black paint, and drawed off\
some handbills, and stuck them up all over the village. \'a0The bills said:\
\
\
\
\
CHAPTER XXIII.\
\
WELL, all day him and the king was hard at it, rigging up a stage and\
a curtain and a row of candles for footlights; and that night the house\
was jam full of men in no time. \'a0When the place couldn\'92t hold no more,\
the duke he quit tending door and went around the back way and come on\
to the stage and stood up before the curtain and made a little speech,\
and praised up this tragedy, and said it was the most thrillingest one\
that ever was; and so he went on a-bragging about the tragedy, and about\
Edmund Kean the Elder, which was to play the main principal part in it;\
and at last when he\'92d got everybody\'92s expectations up high enough, he\
rolled up the curtain, and the next minute the king come a-prancing\
out on all fours, naked; and he was painted all over,\
ring-streaked-and-striped, all sorts of colors, as splendid as a\
rainbow. \'a0And--but never mind the rest of his outfit; it was just wild,\
but it was awful funny. The people most killed themselves laughing; and\
when the king got done capering and capered off behind the scenes, they\
roared and clapped and stormed and haw-hawed till he come back and done\
it over again, and after that they made him do it another time. Well, it\
would make a cow laugh to see the shines that old idiot cut.\
\
Then the duke he lets the curtain down, and bows to the people, and says\
the great tragedy will be performed only two nights more, on accounts of\
pressing London engagements, where the seats is all sold already for it\
in Drury Lane; and then he makes them another bow, and says if he has\
succeeded in pleasing them and instructing them, he will be deeply\
obleeged if they will mention it to their friends and get them to come\
and see it.\
\
Twenty people sings out:\
\
\'93What, is it over? \'a0Is that _all_?\'94\
\
The duke says yes. \'a0Then there was a fine time. \'a0Everybody sings\
out, \'93Sold!\'94 and rose up mad, and was a-going for that stage and them\
tragedians. \'a0But a big, fine looking man jumps up on a bench and shouts:\
\
\'93Hold on! \'a0Just a word, gentlemen.\'94 \'a0They stopped to listen.  \'93We are\
sold--mighty badly sold. \'a0But we don\'92t want to be the laughing stock of\
this whole town, I reckon, and never hear the last of this thing as long\
as we live. \'a0_No_. \'a0What we want is to go out of here quiet, and talk\
this show up, and sell the _rest_ of the town! \'a0Then we\'92ll all be in the\
same boat. \'a0Ain\'92t that sensible?\'94 (\'93You bet it is!--the jedge is right!\'94\
 everybody sings out.) \'93All right, then--not a word about any sell. \'a0Go\
along home, and advise everybody to come and see the tragedy.\'94\
\
Next day you couldn\'92t hear nothing around that town but how splendid\
that show was. \'a0House was jammed again that night, and we sold this\
crowd the same way. \'a0When me and the king and the duke got home to the\
raft we all had a supper; and by and by, about midnight, they made Jim\
and me back her out and float her down the middle of the river, and\
fetch her in and hide her about two mile below town.\
\
The third night the house was crammed again--and they warn\'92t new-comers\
this time, but people that was at the show the other two nights. \'a0I\
stood by the duke at the door, and I see that every man that went in had\
his pockets bulging, or something muffled up under his coat--and I see it\
warn\'92t no perfumery, neither, not by a long sight. \'a0I smelt sickly eggs\
by the barrel, and rotten cabbages, and such things; and if I know the\
signs of a dead cat being around, and I bet I do, there was sixty-four\
of them went in. \'a0I shoved in there for a minute, but it was too various\
for me; I couldn\'92t stand it. \'a0Well, when the place couldn\'92t hold no more\
people the duke he give a fellow a quarter and told him to tend door\
for him a minute, and then he started around for the stage door, I after\
him; but the minute we turned the corner and was in the dark he says:\
\
\'93Walk fast now till you get away from the houses, and then shin for the\
raft like the dickens was after you!\'94\
\
I done it, and he done the same. \'a0We struck the raft at the same time,\
and in less than two seconds we was gliding down stream, all dark and\
still, and edging towards the middle of the river, nobody saying a\
word. I reckoned the poor king was in for a gaudy time of it with the\
audience, but nothing of the sort; pretty soon he crawls out from under\
the wigwam, and says:\
\
\'93Well, how\'92d the old thing pan out this time, duke?\'94 \'a0He hadn\'92t been\
up-town at all.\
\
We never showed a light till we was about ten mile below the village.\
Then we lit up and had a supper, and the king and the duke fairly\
laughed their bones loose over the way they\'92d served them people. \'a0The\
duke says:\
\
\'93Greenhorns, flatheads! \'a0I knew the first house would keep mum and let\
the rest of the town get roped in; and I knew they\'92d lay for us the\
third night, and consider it was _their_ turn now. \'a0Well, it _is_ their\
turn, and I\'92d give something to know how much they\'92d take for it. \'a0I\
_would_ just like to know how they\'92re putting in their opportunity.\
\'a0They can turn it into a picnic if they want to--they brought plenty\
provisions.\'94\
\
Them rapscallions took in four hundred and sixty-five dollars in that\
three nights. \'a0I never see money hauled in by the wagon-load like that\
before. \'a0By and by, when they was asleep and snoring, Jim says:\
\
\'93Don\'92t it s\'92prise you de way dem kings carries on, Huck?\'94\
\
\'93No,\'94 I says, \'93it don\'92t.\'94\
\
\'93Why don\'92t it, Huck?\'94\
\
\'93Well, it don\'92t, because it\'92s in the breed. \'a0I reckon they\'92re all\
alike.\'94\
\
\'93But, Huck, dese kings o\'92 ourn is reglar rapscallions; dat\'92s jist what\
dey is; dey\'92s reglar rapscallions.\'94\
\
\'93Well, that\'92s what I\'92m a-saying; all kings is mostly rapscallions, as\
fur as I can make out.\'94\
\
\'93Is dat so?\'94\
\
\'93You read about them once--you\'92ll see. \'a0Look at Henry the Eight; this \'91n\
\'91s a Sunday-school Superintendent to _him_. \'a0And look at Charles Second,\
and Louis Fourteen, and Louis Fifteen, and James Second, and Edward\
Second, and Richard Third, and forty more; besides all them Saxon\
heptarchies that used to rip around so in old times and raise Cain. \'a0My,\
you ought to seen old Henry the Eight when he was in bloom. \'a0He _was_ a\
blossom. \'a0He used to marry a new wife every day, and chop off her head\
next morning. \'a0And he would do it just as indifferent as if he was\
ordering up eggs.  \'91Fetch up Nell Gwynn,\'92 he says. \'a0They fetch her up.\
Next morning, \'91Chop off her head!\'92 \'a0And they chop it off.  \'91Fetch up\
Jane Shore,\'92 he says; and up she comes, Next morning, \'91Chop off her\
head\'92--and they chop it off.  \'91Ring up Fair Rosamun.\'92 \'a0Fair Rosamun\
answers the bell. \'a0Next morning, \'91Chop off her head.\'92 \'a0And he made every\
one of them tell him a tale every night; and he kept that up till he had\
hogged a thousand and one tales that way, and then he put them all in a\
book, and called it Domesday Book--which was a good name and stated the\
case. \'a0You don\'92t know kings, Jim, but I know them; and this old rip\
of ourn is one of the cleanest I\'92ve struck in history. \'a0Well, Henry he\
takes a notion he wants to get up some trouble with this country. How\
does he go at it--give notice?--give the country a show? \'a0No. \'a0All of a\
sudden he heaves all the tea in Boston Harbor overboard, and whacks\
out a declaration of independence, and dares them to come on. \'a0That was\
_his_ style--he never give anybody a chance. \'a0He had suspicions of his\
father, the Duke of Wellington. \'a0Well, what did he do? \'a0Ask him to show\
up? \'a0No--drownded him in a butt of mamsey, like a cat. \'a0S\'92pose people\
left money laying around where he was--what did he do? \'a0He collared it.\
\'a0S\'92pose he contracted to do a thing, and you paid him, and didn\'92t set\
down there and see that he done it--what did he do? \'a0He always done the\
other thing. S\'92pose he opened his mouth--what then? \'a0If he didn\'92t shut it\
up powerful quick he\'92d lose a lie every time. \'a0That\'92s the kind of a bug\
Henry was; and if we\'92d a had him along \'91stead of our kings he\'92d a fooled\
that town a heap worse than ourn done. \'a0I don\'92t say that ourn is lambs,\
because they ain\'92t, when you come right down to the cold facts; but they\
ain\'92t nothing to _that_ old ram, anyway. \'a0All I say is, kings is kings,\
and you got to make allowances. \'a0Take them all around, they\'92re a mighty\
ornery lot. It\'92s the way they\'92re raised.\'94\
\
\'93But dis one do _smell_ so like de nation, Huck.\'94\
\
\'93Well, they all do, Jim. \'a0We can\'92t help the way a king smells; history\
don\'92t tell no way.\'94\
\
\'93Now de duke, he\'92s a tolerble likely man in some ways.\'94\
\
\'93Yes, a duke\'92s different. \'a0But not very different. \'a0This one\'92s\
a middling hard lot for a duke. \'a0When he\'92s drunk there ain\'92t no\
near-sighted man could tell him from a king.\'94\
\
\'93Well, anyways, I doan\'92 hanker for no mo\'92 un um, Huck. \'a0Dese is all I\
kin stan\'92.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s the way I feel, too, Jim. \'a0But we\'92ve got them on our hands, and we\
got to remember what they are, and make allowances. \'a0Sometimes I wish we\
could hear of a country that\'92s out of kings.\'94\
\
What was the use to tell Jim these warn\'92t real kings and dukes? \'a0It\
wouldn\'92t a done no good; and, besides, it was just as I said: \'a0you\
couldn\'92t tell them from the real kind.\
\
I went to sleep, and Jim didn\'92t call me when it was my turn. \'a0He often\
done that. \'a0When I waked up just at daybreak he was sitting there with\
his head down betwixt his knees, moaning and mourning to himself. \'a0I\
didn\'92t take notice nor let on. \'a0I knowed what it was about. \'a0He was\
thinking about his wife and his children, away up yonder, and he was low\
and homesick; because he hadn\'92t ever been away from home before in his\
life; and I do believe he cared just as much for his people as white\
folks does for their\'92n. \'a0It don\'92t seem natural, but I reckon it\'92s so.\
\'a0He was often moaning and mourning that way nights, when he judged I\
was asleep, and saying, \'93Po\'92 little \'91Lizabeth! po\'92 little Johnny! it\'92s\
mighty hard; I spec\'92 I ain\'92t ever gwyne to see you no mo\'92, no mo\'92!\'94 \'a0He\
was a mighty good nigger, Jim was.\
\
But this time I somehow got to talking to him about his wife and young\
ones; and by and by he says:\
\
\'93What makes me feel so bad dis time \'91uz bekase I hear sumpn over yonder\
on de bank like a whack, er a slam, while ago, en it mine me er de time\
I treat my little \'91Lizabeth so ornery. \'a0She warn\'92t on\'92y \'91bout fo\'92 year\
ole, en she tuck de sk\'92yarlet fever, en had a powful rough spell; but\
she got well, en one day she was a-stannin\'92 aroun\'92, en I says to her, I\
says:\
\
\'93\'91Shet de do\'92.\'92\
\
\'93She never done it; jis\'92 stood dah, kiner smilin\'92 up at me. \'a0It make me\
mad; en I says agin, mighty loud, I says:\
\
\'93\'91Doan\'92 you hear me? \'a0Shet de do\'92!\'92\
\
\'93She jis stood de same way, kiner smilin\'92 up. \'a0I was a-bilin\'92! \'a0I says:\
\
\'93\'91I lay I _make_ you mine!\'92\
\
\'93En wid dat I fetch\'92 her a slap side de head dat sont her a-sprawlin\'92.\
Den I went into de yuther room, en \'91uz gone \'91bout ten minutes; en when\
I come back dah was dat do\'92 a-stannin\'92 open _yit_, en dat chile stannin\'92\
mos\'92 right in it, a-lookin\'92 down and mournin\'92, en de tears runnin\'92 down.\
\'a0My, but I _wuz_ mad! \'a0I was a-gwyne for de chile, but jis\'92 den--it was a\
do\'92 dat open innerds--jis\'92 den, \'91long come de wind en slam it to, behine\
de chile, ker-BLAM!--en my lan\'92, de chile never move\'92! \'a0My breff mos\'92\
hop outer me; en I feel so--so--I doan\'92 know HOW I feel. \'a0I crope out,\
all a-tremblin\'92, en crope aroun\'92 en open de do\'92 easy en slow, en poke my\
head in behine de chile, sof\'92 en still, en all uv a sudden I says POW!\
jis\'92 as loud as I could yell. \'a0_She never budge!_ \'a0Oh, Huck, I bust out\
a-cryin\'92 en grab her up in my arms, en say, \'91Oh, de po\'92 little thing!\
\'a0De Lord God Amighty fogive po\'92 ole Jim, kaze he never gwyne to fogive\
hisself as long\'92s he live!\'92 \'a0Oh, she was plumb deef en dumb, Huck, plumb\
deef en dumb--en I\'92d ben a-treat\'92n her so!\'94\
\
\
\
\
CHAPTER XXIV.\
\
NEXT day, towards night, we laid up under a little willow towhead out in\
the middle, where there was a village on each side of the river, and the\
duke and the king begun to lay out a plan for working them towns. \'a0Jim\
he spoke to the duke, and said he hoped it wouldn\'92t take but a few\
hours, because it got mighty heavy and tiresome to him when he had to\
lay all day in the wigwam tied with the rope. \'a0You see, when we left him\
all alone we had to tie him, because if anybody happened on to him all\
by himself and not tied it wouldn\'92t look much like he was a runaway\
nigger, you know. So the duke said it _was_ kind of hard to have to lay\
roped all day, and he\'92d cipher out some way to get around it.\
\
He was uncommon bright, the duke was, and he soon struck it. \'a0He dressed\
Jim up in King Lear\'92s outfit--it was a long curtain-calico gown, and a\
white horse-hair wig and whiskers; and then he took his theater paint\
and painted Jim\'92s face and hands and ears and neck all over a dead,\
dull, solid blue, like a man that\'92s been drownded nine days. \'a0Blamed if\
he warn\'92t the horriblest looking outrage I ever see. \'a0Then the duke took\
and wrote out a sign on a shingle so:\
\
Sick Arab--but harmless when not out of his head.\
\
And he nailed that shingle to a lath, and stood the lath up four or five\
foot in front of the wigwam. \'a0Jim was satisfied. \'a0He said it was a sight\
better than lying tied a couple of years every day, and trembling all\
over every time there was a sound. \'a0The duke told him to make himself\
free and easy, and if anybody ever come meddling around, he must hop\
out of the wigwam, and carry on a little, and fetch a howl or two like\
a wild beast, and he reckoned they would light out and leave him alone.\
\'a0Which was sound enough judgment; but you take the average man, and he\
wouldn\'92t wait for him to howl. \'a0Why, he didn\'92t only look like he was\
dead, he looked considerable more than that.\
\
These rapscallions wanted to try the Nonesuch again, because there was\
so much money in it, but they judged it wouldn\'92t be safe, because maybe\
the news might a worked along down by this time. \'a0They couldn\'92t hit no\
project that suited exactly; so at last the duke said he reckoned he\'92d\
lay off and work his brains an hour or two and see if he couldn\'92t put up\
something on the Arkansaw village; and the king he allowed he would drop\
over to t\'92other village without any plan, but just trust in Providence\
to lead him the profitable way--meaning the devil, I reckon. \'a0We had all\
bought store clothes where we stopped last; and now the king put his\'92n\
on, and he told me to put mine on. \'a0I done it, of course. \'a0The king\'92s\
duds was all black, and he did look real swell and starchy. \'a0I never\
knowed how clothes could change a body before. \'a0Why, before, he looked\
like the orneriest old rip that ever was; but now, when he\'92d take off\
his new white beaver and make a bow and do a smile, he looked that grand\
and good and pious that you\'92d say he had walked right out of the ark,\
and maybe was old Leviticus himself. \'a0Jim cleaned up the canoe, and I\
got my paddle ready. \'a0There was a big steamboat laying at the shore away\
up under the point, about three mile above the town--been there a couple\
of hours, taking on freight. \'a0Says the king:\
\
\'93Seein\'92 how I\'92m dressed, I reckon maybe I better arrive down from St.\
Louis or Cincinnati, or some other big place. \'a0Go for the steamboat,\
Huckleberry; we\'92ll come down to the village on her.\'94\
\
I didn\'92t have to be ordered twice to go and take a steamboat ride.\
\'a0I fetched the shore a half a mile above the village, and then went\
scooting along the bluff bank in the easy water. \'a0Pretty soon we come to\
a nice innocent-looking young country jake setting on a log swabbing the\
sweat off of his face, for it was powerful warm weather; and he had a\
couple of big carpet-bags by him.\
\
\'93Run her nose in shore,\'94 says the king. \'a0I done it.  \'93Wher\'92 you bound\
for, young man?\'94\
\
\'93For the steamboat; going to Orleans.\'94\
\
\'93Git aboard,\'94 says the king.  \'93Hold on a minute, my servant \'91ll he\'92p you\
with them bags. \'a0Jump out and he\'92p the gentleman, Adolphus\'94--meaning me,\
I see.\
\
I done so, and then we all three started on again. \'a0The young chap was\
mighty thankful; said it was tough work toting his baggage such weather.\
He asked the king where he was going, and the king told him he\'92d come\
down the river and landed at the other village this morning, and now he\
was going up a few mile to see an old friend on a farm up there. \'a0The\
young fellow says:\
\
\'93When I first see you I says to myself, \'91It\'92s Mr. Wilks, sure, and he\
come mighty near getting here in time.\'92 \'a0But then I says again, \'91No, I\
reckon it ain\'92t him, or else he wouldn\'92t be paddling up the river.\'92 \'a0You\
_ain\'92t_ him, are you?\'94\
\
\'93No, my name\'92s Blodgett--Elexander Blodgett--_Reverend_ Elexander\
Blodgett, I s\'92pose I must say, as I\'92m one o\'92 the Lord\'92s poor servants.\
\'a0But still I\'92m jist as able to be sorry for Mr. Wilks for not arriving\
in time, all the same, if he\'92s missed anything by it--which I hope he\
hasn\'92t.\'94\
\
\'93Well, he don\'92t miss any property by it, because he\'92ll get that all\
right; but he\'92s missed seeing his brother Peter die--which he mayn\'92t\
mind, nobody can tell as to that--but his brother would a give anything\
in this world to see _him_ before he died; never talked about nothing\
else all these three weeks; hadn\'92t seen him since they was boys\
together--and hadn\'92t ever seen his brother William at all--that\'92s the deef\
and dumb one--William ain\'92t more than thirty or thirty-five. \'a0Peter and\
George were the only ones that come out here; George was the married\
brother; him and his wife both died last year. \'a0Harvey and William\'92s the\
only ones that\'92s left now; and, as I was saying, they haven\'92t got here\
in time.\'94\
\
\'93Did anybody send \'91em word?\'94\
\
\'93Oh, yes; a month or two ago, when Peter was first took; because Peter\
said then that he sorter felt like he warn\'92t going to get well this\
time. You see, he was pretty old, and George\'92s g\'92yirls was too young to\
be much company for him, except Mary Jane, the red-headed one; and so he\
was kinder lonesome after George and his wife died, and didn\'92t seem\
to care much to live. \'a0He most desperately wanted to see Harvey--and\
William, too, for that matter--because he was one of them kind that can\'92t\
bear to make a will. \'a0He left a letter behind for Harvey, and said he\'92d\
told in it where his money was hid, and how he wanted the rest of the\
property divided up so George\'92s g\'92yirls would be all right--for George\
didn\'92t leave nothing. \'a0And that letter was all they could get him to put\
a pen to.\'94\
\
\'93Why do you reckon Harvey don\'92t come? \'a0Wher\'92 does he live?\'94\
\
\'93Oh, he lives in England--Sheffield--preaches there--hasn\'92t ever been in\
this country. \'a0He hasn\'92t had any too much time--and besides he mightn\'92t a\
got the letter at all, you know.\'94\
\
\'93Too bad, too bad he couldn\'92t a lived to see his brothers, poor soul.\
You going to Orleans, you say?\'94\
\
\'93Yes, but that ain\'92t only a part of it. \'a0I\'92m going in a ship, next\
Wednesday, for Ryo Janeero, where my uncle lives.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s a pretty long journey. \'a0But it\'92ll be lovely; wisht I was a-going.\
Is Mary Jane the oldest? \'a0How old is the others?\'94\
\
\'93Mary Jane\'92s nineteen, Susan\'92s fifteen, and Joanna\'92s about\
fourteen--that\'92s the one that gives herself to good works and has a\
hare-lip.\'94\
\
\'93Poor things! to be left alone in the cold world so.\'94\
\
\'93Well, they could be worse off. \'a0Old Peter had friends, and they\
ain\'92t going to let them come to no harm. \'a0There\'92s Hobson, the Babtis\'92\
preacher; and Deacon Lot Hovey, and Ben Rucker, and Abner Shackleford,\
and Levi Bell, the lawyer; and Dr. Robinson, and their wives, and the\
widow Bartley, and--well, there\'92s a lot of them; but these are the ones\
that Peter was thickest with, and used to write about sometimes, when\
he wrote home; so Harvey \'91ll know where to look for friends when he gets\
here.\'94\
\
Well, the old man went on asking questions till he just fairly emptied\
that young fellow. \'a0Blamed if he didn\'92t inquire about everybody and\
everything in that blessed town, and all about the Wilkses; and about\
Peter\'92s business--which was a tanner; and about George\'92s--which was a\
carpenter; and about Harvey\'92s--which was a dissentering minister; and so\
on, and so on. \'a0Then he says:\
\
\'93What did you want to walk all the way up to the steamboat for?\'94\
\
\'93Because she\'92s a big Orleans boat, and I was afeard she mightn\'92t stop\
there. \'a0When they\'92re deep they won\'92t stop for a hail. \'a0A Cincinnati boat\
will, but this is a St. Louis one.\'94\
\
\'93Was Peter Wilks well off?\'94\
\
\'93Oh, yes, pretty well off. \'a0He had houses and land, and it\'92s reckoned he\
left three or four thousand in cash hid up som\'92ers.\'94\
\
\'93When did you say he died?\'94\
\
\'93I didn\'92t say, but it was last night.\'94\
\
\'93Funeral to-morrow, likely?\'94\
\
\'93Yes, \'91bout the middle of the day.\'94\
\
\'93Well, it\'92s all terrible sad; but we\'92ve all got to go, one time or\
another. So what we want to do is to be prepared; then we\'92re all right.\'94\
\
\'93Yes, sir, it\'92s the best way. \'a0Ma used to always say that.\'94\
\
When we struck the boat she was about done loading, and pretty soon she\
got off. \'a0The king never said nothing about going aboard, so I lost\
my ride, after all. \'a0When the boat was gone the king made me paddle up\
another mile to a lonesome place, and then he got ashore and says:\
\
\'93Now hustle back, right off, and fetch the duke up here, and the new\
carpet-bags. \'a0And if he\'92s gone over to t\'92other side, go over there and\
git him. \'a0And tell him to git himself up regardless. \'a0Shove along, now.\'94\
\
I see what _he_ was up to; but I never said nothing, of course. \'a0When\
I got back with the duke we hid the canoe, and then they set down on a\
log, and the king told him everything, just like the young fellow had\
said it--every last word of it. \'a0And all the time he was a-doing it he\
tried to talk like an Englishman; and he done it pretty well, too, for\
a slouch. I can\'92t imitate him, and so I ain\'92t a-going to try to; but he\
really done it pretty good. \'a0Then he says:\
\
\'93How are you on the deef and dumb, Bilgewater?\'94\
\
The duke said, leave him alone for that; said he had played a deef\
and dumb person on the histronic boards. \'a0So then they waited for a\
steamboat.\
\
About the middle of the afternoon a couple of little boats come along,\
but they didn\'92t come from high enough up the river; but at last there\
was a big one, and they hailed her. \'a0She sent out her yawl, and we went\
aboard, and she was from Cincinnati; and when they found we only wanted\
to go four or five mile they was booming mad, and gave us a cussing, and\
said they wouldn\'92t land us. \'a0But the king was ca\'92m. \'a0He says:\
\
\'93If gentlemen kin afford to pay a dollar a mile apiece to be took on and\
put off in a yawl, a steamboat kin afford to carry \'91em, can\'92t it?\'94\
\
So they softened down and said it was all right; and when we got to the\
village they yawled us ashore. \'a0About two dozen men flocked down when\
they see the yawl a-coming, and when the king says:\
\
\'93Kin any of you gentlemen tell me wher\'92 Mr. Peter Wilks lives?\'94 they\
give a glance at one another, and nodded their heads, as much as to say,\
\'93What d\'92 I tell you?\'94 \'a0Then one of them says, kind of soft and gentle:\
\
\'93I\'92m sorry sir, but the best we can do is to tell you where he _did_\
live yesterday evening.\'94\
\
Sudden as winking the ornery old cretur went an to smash, and fell up\
against the man, and put his chin on his shoulder, and cried down his\
back, and says:\
\
\'93Alas, alas, our poor brother--gone, and we never got to see him; oh,\
it\'92s too, too hard!\'94\
\
Then he turns around, blubbering, and makes a lot of idiotic signs to\
the duke on his hands, and blamed if he didn\'92t drop a carpet-bag and\
bust out a-crying. \'a0If they warn\'92t the beatenest lot, them two frauds,\
that ever I struck.\
\
Well, the men gathered around and sympathized with them, and said all\
sorts of kind things to them, and carried their carpet-bags up the hill\
for them, and let them lean on them and cry, and told the king all about\
his brother\'92s last moments, and the king he told it all over again on\
his hands to the duke, and both of them took on about that dead tanner\
like they\'92d lost the twelve disciples. \'a0Well, if ever I struck anything\
like it, I\'92m a nigger. It was enough to make a body ashamed of the human\
race.\
\
\
\
\
CHAPTER XXV.\
\
THE news was all over town in two minutes, and you could see the people\
tearing down on the run from every which way, some of them putting on\
their coats as they come. \'a0Pretty soon we was in the middle of a crowd,\
and the noise of the tramping was like a soldier march. \'a0The windows and\
dooryards was full; and every minute somebody would say, over a fence:\
\
\'93Is it _them_?\'94\
\
And somebody trotting along with the gang would answer back and say:\
\
\'93You bet it is.\'94\
\
When we got to the house the street in front of it was packed, and the\
three girls was standing in the door. \'a0Mary Jane _was_ red-headed, but\
that don\'92t make no difference, she was most awful beautiful, and her\
face and her eyes was all lit up like glory, she was so glad her uncles\
was come. The king he spread his arms, and Mary Jane she jumped for\
them, and the hare-lip jumped for the duke, and there they had it!\
\'a0Everybody most, leastways women, cried for joy to see them meet again\
at last and have such good times.\
\
Then the king he hunched the duke private--I see him do it--and then he\
looked around and see the coffin, over in the corner on two chairs; so\
then him and the duke, with a hand across each other\'92s shoulder, and\
t\'92other hand to their eyes, walked slow and solemn over there, everybody\
dropping back to give them room, and all the talk and noise stopping,\
people saying \'93Sh!\'94 and all the men taking their hats off and drooping\
their heads, so you could a heard a pin fall. \'a0And when they got there\
they bent over and looked in the coffin, and took one sight, and then\
they bust out a-crying so you could a heard them to Orleans, most; and\
then they put their arms around each other\'92s necks, and hung their chins\
over each other\'92s shoulders; and then for three minutes, or maybe four,\
I never see two men leak the way they done. \'a0And, mind you, everybody\
was doing the same; and the place was that damp I never see anything\
like it. Then one of them got on one side of the coffin, and t\'92other on\
t\'92other side, and they kneeled down and rested their foreheads on the\
coffin, and let on to pray all to themselves. \'a0Well, when it come\
to that it worked the crowd like you never see anything like it, and\
everybody broke down and went to sobbing right out loud--the poor girls,\
too; and every woman, nearly, went up to the girls, without saying a\
word, and kissed them, solemn, on the forehead, and then put their hand\
on their head, and looked up towards the sky, with the tears running\
down, and then busted out and went off sobbing and swabbing, and give\
the next woman a show. \'a0I never see anything so disgusting.\
\
Well, by and by the king he gets up and comes forward a little, and\
works himself up and slobbers out a speech, all full of tears and\
flapdoodle about its being a sore trial for him and his poor brother\
to lose the diseased, and to miss seeing diseased alive after the long\
journey of four thousand mile, but it\'92s a trial that\'92s sweetened and\
sanctified to us by this dear sympathy and these holy tears, and so he\
thanks them out of his heart and out of his brother\'92s heart, because out\
of their mouths they can\'92t, words being too weak and cold, and all that\
kind of rot and slush, till it was just sickening; and then he blubbers\
out a pious goody-goody Amen, and turns himself loose and goes to crying\
fit to bust.\
\
And the minute the words were out of his mouth somebody over in the\
crowd struck up the doxolojer, and everybody joined in with all their\
might, and it just warmed you up and made you feel as good as church\
letting out. Music is a good thing; and after all that soul-butter and\
hogwash I never see it freshen up things so, and sound so honest and\
bully.\
\
Then the king begins to work his jaw again, and says how him and his\
nieces would be glad if a few of the main principal friends of the\
family would take supper here with them this evening, and help set up\
with the ashes of the diseased; and says if his poor brother laying\
yonder could speak he knows who he would name, for they was names that\
was very dear to him, and mentioned often in his letters; and so he will\
name the same, to wit, as follows, vizz.:--Rev. Mr. Hobson, and Deacon\
Lot Hovey, and Mr. Ben Rucker, and Abner Shackleford, and Levi Bell, and\
Dr. Robinson, and their wives, and the widow Bartley.\
\
Rev. Hobson and Dr. Robinson was down to the end of the town a-hunting\
together--that is, I mean the doctor was shipping a sick man to t\'92other\
world, and the preacher was pinting him right. \'a0Lawyer Bell was away up\
to Louisville on business. \'a0But the rest was on hand, and so they all\
come and shook hands with the king and thanked him and talked to him;\
and then they shook hands with the duke and didn\'92t say nothing, but just\
kept a-smiling and bobbing their heads like a passel of sapheads whilst\
he made all sorts of signs with his hands and said \'93Goo-goo--goo-goo-goo\'94\
 all the time, like a baby that can\'92t talk.\
\
So the king he blattered along, and managed to inquire about pretty\
much everybody and dog in town, by his name, and mentioned all sorts\
of little things that happened one time or another in the town, or to\
George\'92s family, or to Peter. \'a0And he always let on that Peter wrote him\
the things; but that was a lie: \'a0he got every blessed one of them out of\
that young flathead that we canoed up to the steamboat.\
\
Then Mary Jane she fetched the letter her father left behind, and the\
king he read it out loud and cried over it. \'a0It give the dwelling-house\
and three thousand dollars, gold, to the girls; and it give the tanyard\
(which was doing a good business), along with some other houses and\
land (worth about seven thousand), and three thousand dollars in gold\
to Harvey and William, and told where the six thousand cash was hid down\
cellar. \'a0So these two frauds said they\'92d go and fetch it up, and have\
everything square and above-board; and told me to come with a candle.\
\'a0We shut the cellar door behind us, and when they found the bag\
they spilt it out on the floor, and it was a lovely sight, all them\
yaller-boys. \'a0My, the way the king\'92s eyes did shine! \'a0He slaps the duke\
on the shoulder and says:\
\
\'93Oh, _this_ ain\'92t bully nor noth\'92n! \'a0Oh, no, I reckon not! \'a0Why,\
_bully_, it beats the Nonesuch, _don\'92t_ it?\'94\
\
The duke allowed it did. \'a0They pawed the yaller-boys, and sifted them\
through their fingers and let them jingle down on the floor; and the\
king says:\
\
\'93It ain\'92t no use talkin\'92; bein\'92 brothers to a rich dead man and\
representatives of furrin heirs that\'92s got left is the line for you and\
me, Bilge. \'a0Thish yer comes of trust\'92n to Providence. \'a0It\'92s the best\
way, in the long run. \'a0I\'92ve tried \'91em all, and ther\'92 ain\'92t no better\
way.\'94\
\
Most everybody would a been satisfied with the pile, and took it on\
trust; but no, they must count it. \'a0So they counts it, and it comes out\
four hundred and fifteen dollars short. \'a0Says the king:\
\
\'93Dern him, I wonder what he done with that four hundred and fifteen\
dollars?\'94\
\
They worried over that awhile, and ransacked all around for it. \'a0Then\
the duke says:\
\
\'93Well, he was a pretty sick man, and likely he made a mistake--I reckon\
that\'92s the way of it. \'a0The best way\'92s to let it go, and keep still about\
it. \'a0We can spare it.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, shucks, yes, we can _spare_ it. \'a0I don\'92t k\'92yer noth\'92n \'91bout\
that--it\'92s the _count_ I\'92m thinkin\'92 about. \'a0We want to be awful square\
and open and above-board here, you know. \'a0We want to lug this h-yer\
money up stairs and count it before everybody--then ther\'92 ain\'92t noth\'92n\
suspicious. \'a0But when the dead man says ther\'92s six thous\'92n dollars, you\
know, we don\'92t want to--\'94\
\
\'93Hold on,\'94 says the duke.  \'93Le\'92s make up the deffisit,\'94 and he begun to\
haul out yaller-boys out of his pocket.\
\
\'93It\'92s a most amaz\'92n\'92 good idea, duke--you _have_ got a rattlin\'92 clever\
head on you,\'94 says the king.  \'93Blest if the old Nonesuch ain\'92t a heppin\'92\
us out agin,\'94 and _he_ begun to haul out yaller-jackets and stack them\
up.\
\
It most busted them, but they made up the six thousand clean and clear.\
\
\'93Say,\'94 says the duke, \'93I got another idea. \'a0Le\'92s go up stairs and count\
this money, and then take and _give it to the girls_.\'94\
\
\'93Good land, duke, lemme hug you! \'a0It\'92s the most dazzling idea \'91at ever a\
man struck. \'a0You have cert\'92nly got the most astonishin\'92 head I ever see.\
Oh, this is the boss dodge, ther\'92 ain\'92t no mistake \'91bout it. \'a0Let \'91em\
fetch along their suspicions now if they want to--this \'91ll lay \'91em out.\'94\
\
When we got up-stairs everybody gethered around the table, and the king\
he counted it and stacked it up, three hundred dollars in a pile--twenty\
elegant little piles. \'a0Everybody looked hungry at it, and licked their\
chops. \'a0Then they raked it into the bag again, and I see the king begin\
to swell himself up for another speech. \'a0He says:\
\
\'93Friends all, my poor brother that lays yonder has done generous by\
them that\'92s left behind in the vale of sorrers. \'a0He has done generous by\
these yer poor little lambs that he loved and sheltered, and that\'92s left\
fatherless and motherless. \'a0Yes, and we that knowed him knows that he\
would a done _more_ generous by \'91em if he hadn\'92t ben afeard o\'92 woundin\'92\
his dear William and me. \'a0Now, _wouldn\'92t_ he? \'a0Ther\'92 ain\'92t no question\
\'91bout it in _my_ mind. \'a0Well, then, what kind o\'92 brothers would it be\
that \'91d stand in his way at sech a time? \'a0And what kind o\'92 uncles would\
it be that \'91d rob--yes, _rob_--sech poor sweet lambs as these \'91at he loved\
so at sech a time? \'a0If I know William--and I _think_ I do--he--well, I\'92ll\
jest ask him.\'94 He turns around and begins to make a lot of signs to\
the duke with his hands, and the duke he looks at him stupid and\
leather-headed a while; then all of a sudden he seems to catch his\
meaning, and jumps for the king, goo-gooing with all his might for joy,\
and hugs him about fifteen times before he lets up. \'a0Then the king says,\
\'93I knowed it; I reckon _that \'91ll_ convince anybody the way _he_ feels\
about it. \'a0Here, Mary Jane, Susan, Joanner, take the money--take it\
_all_. \'a0It\'92s the gift of him that lays yonder, cold but joyful.\'94\
\
Mary Jane she went for him, Susan and the hare-lip went for the\
duke, and then such another hugging and kissing I never see yet. \'a0And\
everybody crowded up with the tears in their eyes, and most shook the\
hands off of them frauds, saying all the time:\
\
\'93You _dear_ good souls!--how _lovely_!--how _could_ you!\'94\
\
Well, then, pretty soon all hands got to talking about the diseased\
again, and how good he was, and what a loss he was, and all that; and\
before long a big iron-jawed man worked himself in there from outside,\
and stood a-listening and looking, and not saying anything; and nobody\
saying anything to him either, because the king was talking and they was\
all busy listening. \'a0The king was saying--in the middle of something he\'92d\
started in on--\
\
\'93--they bein\'92 partickler friends o\'92 the diseased. \'a0That\'92s why they\'92re\
invited here this evenin\'92; but tomorrow we want _all_ to come--everybody;\
for he respected everybody, he liked everybody, and so it\'92s fitten that\
his funeral orgies sh\'92d be public.\'94\
\
And so he went a-mooning on and on, liking to hear himself talk, and\
every little while he fetched in his funeral orgies again, till the duke\
he couldn\'92t stand it no more; so he writes on a little scrap of paper,\
\'93_Obsequies_, you old fool,\'94 and folds it up, and goes to goo-gooing and\
reaching it over people\'92s heads to him. \'a0The king he reads it and puts\
it in his pocket, and says:\
\
\'93Poor William, afflicted as he is, his _heart\'92s_ aluz right. \'a0Asks me\
to invite everybody to come to the funeral--wants me to make \'91em all\
welcome. \'a0But he needn\'92t a worried--it was jest what I was at.\'94\
\
Then he weaves along again, perfectly ca\'92m, and goes to dropping in his\
funeral orgies again every now and then, just like he done before. \'a0And\
when he done it the third time he says:\
\
\'93I say orgies, not because it\'92s the common term, because it\
ain\'92t--obsequies bein\'92 the common term--but because orgies is the right\
term. Obsequies ain\'92t used in England no more now--it\'92s gone out. \'a0We\
say orgies now in England. \'a0Orgies is better, because it means the thing\
you\'92re after more exact. \'a0It\'92s a word that\'92s made up out\'92n the Greek\
_orgo_, outside, open, abroad; and the Hebrew _jeesum_, to plant, cover\
up; hence in_ter._ \'a0So, you see, funeral orgies is an open er public\
funeral.\'94\
\
He was the _worst_ I ever struck. \'a0Well, the iron-jawed man he laughed\
right in his face. \'a0Everybody was shocked. \'a0Everybody says, \'93Why,\
_doctor_!\'94 and Abner Shackleford says:\
\
\'93Why, Robinson, hain\'92t you heard the news? \'a0This is Harvey Wilks.\'94\
\
The king he smiled eager, and shoved out his flapper, and says:\
\
\'93Is it my poor brother\'92s dear good friend and physician? \'a0I--\'94\
\
\'93Keep your hands off of me!\'94 says the doctor.  \'93_You_ talk like an\
Englishman, _don\'92t_ you? \'a0It\'92s the worst imitation I ever heard. \'a0_You_\
Peter Wilks\'92s brother! \'a0You\'92re a fraud, that\'92s what you are!\'94\
\
Well, how they all took on! \'a0They crowded around the doctor and tried to\
quiet him down, and tried to explain to him and tell him how Harvey \'91d\
showed in forty ways that he _was_ Harvey, and knowed everybody by name,\
and the names of the very dogs, and begged and _begged_ him not to hurt\
Harvey\'92s feelings and the poor girl\'92s feelings, and all that. \'a0But it\
warn\'92t no use; he stormed right along, and said any man that pretended\
to be an Englishman and couldn\'92t imitate the lingo no better than what\
he did was a fraud and a liar. \'a0The poor girls was hanging to the king\
and crying; and all of a sudden the doctor ups and turns on _them_. \'a0He\
says:\
\
\'93I was your father\'92s friend, and I\'92m your friend; and I warn you as a\
friend, and an honest one that wants to protect you and keep you out of\
harm and trouble, to turn your backs on that scoundrel and have nothing\
to do with him, the ignorant tramp, with his idiotic Greek and Hebrew,\
as he calls it. \'a0He is the thinnest kind of an impostor--has come here\
with a lot of empty names and facts which he picked up somewheres, and\
you take them for _proofs_, and are helped to fool yourselves by these\
foolish friends here, who ought to know better. \'a0Mary Jane Wilks, you\
know me for your friend, and for your unselfish friend, too. \'a0Now listen\
to me; turn this pitiful rascal out--I _beg_ you to do it. \'a0Will you?\'94\
\
Mary Jane straightened herself up, and my, but she was handsome! \'a0She\
says:\
\
\'93_Here_ is my answer.\'94 \'a0She hove up the bag of money and put it in the\
king\'92s hands, and says, \'93Take this six thousand dollars, and invest for\
me and my sisters any way you want to, and don\'92t give us no receipt for\
it.\'94\
\
Then she put her arm around the king on one side, and Susan and the\
hare-lip done the same on the other. \'a0Everybody clapped their hands and\
stomped on the floor like a perfect storm, whilst the king held up his\
head and smiled proud. \'a0The doctor says:\
\
\'93All right; I wash _my_ hands of the matter. \'a0But I warn you all that a\
time \'91s coming when you\'92re going to feel sick whenever you think of this\
day.\'94 And away he went.\
\
\'93All right, doctor,\'94 says the king, kinder mocking him; \'93we\'92ll try and\
get \'91em to send for you;\'94 which made them all laugh, and they said it\
was a prime good hit.\
\
\
\
\
CHAPTER XXVI.\
\
WELL, when they was all gone the king he asks Mary Jane how they was off\
for spare rooms, and she said she had one spare room, which would do for\
Uncle William, and she\'92d give her own room to Uncle Harvey, which was\
a little bigger, and she would turn into the room with her sisters and\
sleep on a cot; and up garret was a little cubby, with a pallet in it.\
The king said the cubby would do for his valley--meaning me.\
\
So Mary Jane took us up, and she showed them their rooms, which was\
plain but nice. \'a0She said she\'92d have her frocks and a lot of other traps\
took out of her room if they was in Uncle Harvey\'92s way, but he said\
they warn\'92t. \'a0The frocks was hung along the wall, and before them was\
a curtain made out of calico that hung down to the floor. \'a0There was an\
old hair trunk in one corner, and a guitar-box in another, and all sorts\
of little knickknacks and jimcracks around, like girls brisken up a room\
with. \'a0The king said it was all the more homely and more pleasanter for\
these fixings, and so don\'92t disturb them. \'a0The duke\'92s room was pretty\
small, but plenty good enough, and so was my cubby.\
\
That night they had a big supper, and all them men and women was there,\
and I stood behind the king and the duke\'92s chairs and waited on them,\
and the niggers waited on the rest. \'a0Mary Jane she set at the head of\
the table, with Susan alongside of her, and said how bad the biscuits\
was, and how mean the preserves was, and how ornery and tough the fried\
chickens was--and all that kind of rot, the way women always do for to\
force out compliments; and the people all knowed everything was tiptop,\
and said so--said \'93How _do_ you get biscuits to brown so nice?\'94 and\
\'93Where, for the land\'92s sake, _did_ you get these amaz\'92n pickles?\'94 and\
all that kind of humbug talky-talk, just the way people always does at a\
supper, you know.\
\
And when it was all done me and the hare-lip had supper in the kitchen\
off of the leavings, whilst the others was helping the niggers clean up\
the things. \'a0The hare-lip she got to pumping me about England, and blest\
if I didn\'92t think the ice was getting mighty thin sometimes. \'a0She says:\
\
\'93Did you ever see the king?\'94\
\
\'93Who? \'a0William Fourth? \'a0Well, I bet I have--he goes to our church.\'94 \'a0I\
knowed he was dead years ago, but I never let on. \'a0So when I says he\
goes to our church, she says:\
\
\'93What--regular?\'94\
\
\'93Yes--regular. \'a0His pew\'92s right over opposite ourn--on t\'92other side the\
pulpit.\'94\
\
\'93I thought he lived in London?\'94\
\
\'93Well, he does. \'a0Where _would_ he live?\'94\
\
\'93But I thought _you_ lived in Sheffield?\'94\
\
I see I was up a stump. \'a0I had to let on to get choked with a chicken\
bone, so as to get time to think how to get down again. \'a0Then I says:\
\
\'93I mean he goes to our church regular when he\'92s in Sheffield. \'a0That\'92s\
only in the summer time, when he comes there to take the sea baths.\'94\
\
\'93Why, how you talk--Sheffield ain\'92t on the sea.\'94\
\
\'93Well, who said it was?\'94\
\
\'93Why, you did.\'94\
\
\'93I _didn\'92t_ nuther.\'94\
\
\'93You did!\'94\
\
\'93I didn\'92t.\'94\
\
\'93You did.\'94\
\
\'93I never said nothing of the kind.\'94\
\
\'93Well, what _did_ you say, then?\'94\
\
\'93Said he come to take the sea _baths_--that\'92s what I said.\'94\
\
\'93Well, then, how\'92s he going to take the sea baths if it ain\'92t on the\
sea?\'94\
\
\'93Looky here,\'94 I says; \'93did you ever see any Congress-water?\'94\
\
\'93Yes.\'94\
\
\'93Well, did you have to go to Congress to get it?\'94\
\
\'93Why, no.\'94\
\
\'93Well, neither does William Fourth have to go to the sea to get a sea\
bath.\'94\
\
\'93How does he get it, then?\'94\
\
\'93Gets it the way people down here gets Congress-water--in barrels. \'a0There\
in the palace at Sheffield they\'92ve got furnaces, and he wants his water\
hot. \'a0They can\'92t bile that amount of water away off there at the sea.\
They haven\'92t got no conveniences for it.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, I see, now. \'a0You might a said that in the first place and saved\
time.\'94\
\
When she said that I see I was out of the woods again, and so I was\
comfortable and glad. \'a0Next, she says:\
\
\'93Do you go to church, too?\'94\
\
\'93Yes--regular.\'94\
\
\'93Where do you set?\'94\
\
\'93Why, in our pew.\'94\
\
\'93_Whose_ pew?\'94\
\
\'93Why, _ourn_--your Uncle Harvey\'92s.\'94\
\
\'93His\'92n? \'a0What does _he_ want with a pew?\'94\
\
\'93Wants it to set in. \'a0What did you _reckon_ he wanted with it?\'94\
\
\'93Why, I thought he\'92d be in the pulpit.\'94\
\
Rot him, I forgot he was a preacher. \'a0I see I was up a stump again, so I\
played another chicken bone and got another think. \'a0Then I says:\
\
\'93Blame it, do you suppose there ain\'92t but one preacher to a church?\'94\
\
\'93Why, what do they want with more?\'94\
\
\'93What!--to preach before a king? \'a0I never did see such a girl as you.\
They don\'92t have no less than seventeen.\'94\
\
\'93Seventeen! \'a0My land! \'a0Why, I wouldn\'92t set out such a string as that,\
not if I _never_ got to glory. \'a0It must take \'91em a week.\'94\
\
\'93Shucks, they don\'92t _all_ of \'91em preach the same day--only _one_ of \'91em.\'94\
\
\'93Well, then, what does the rest of \'91em do?\'94\
\
\'93Oh, nothing much. \'a0Loll around, pass the plate--and one thing or\
another. \'a0But mainly they don\'92t do nothing.\'94\
\
\'93Well, then, what are they _for_?\'94\
\
\'93Why, they\'92re for _style_. \'a0Don\'92t you know nothing?\'94\
\
\'93Well, I don\'92t _want_ to know no such foolishness as that. \'a0How is\
servants treated in England? \'a0Do they treat \'91em better \'91n we treat our\
niggers?\'94\
\
\'93_No_! \'a0A servant ain\'92t nobody there. \'a0They treat them worse than dogs.\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t they give \'91em holidays, the way we do, Christmas and New Year\'92s\
week, and Fourth of July?\'94\
\
\'93Oh, just listen! \'a0A body could tell _you_ hain\'92t ever been to England\
by that. \'a0Why, Hare-l--why, Joanna, they never see a holiday from year\'92s\
end to year\'92s end; never go to the circus, nor theater, nor nigger\
shows, nor nowheres.\'94\
\
\'93Nor church?\'94\
\
\'93Nor church.\'94\
\
\'93But _you_ always went to church.\'94\
\
Well, I was gone up again. \'a0I forgot I was the old man\'92s servant. \'a0But\
next minute I whirled in on a kind of an explanation how a valley was\
different from a common servant and _had_ to go to church whether he\
wanted to or not, and set with the family, on account of its being the\
law. \'a0But I didn\'92t do it pretty good, and when I got done I see she\
warn\'92t satisfied. \'a0She says:\
\
\'93Honest injun, now, hain\'92t you been telling me a lot of lies?\'94\
\
\'93Honest injun,\'94 says I.\
\
\'93None of it at all?\'94\
\
\'93None of it at all. \'a0Not a lie in it,\'94 says I.\
\
\'93Lay your hand on this book and say it.\'94\
\
I see it warn\'92t nothing but a dictionary, so I laid my hand on it and\
said it. \'a0So then she looked a little better satisfied, and says:\
\
\'93Well, then, I\'92ll believe some of it; but I hope to gracious if I\'92ll\
believe the rest.\'94\
\
\'93What is it you won\'92t believe, Joe?\'94 says Mary Jane, stepping in with\
Susan behind her.  \'93It ain\'92t right nor kind for you to talk so to him,\
and him a stranger and so far from his people. \'a0How would you like to be\
treated so?\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s always your way, Maim--always sailing in to help somebody before\
they\'92re hurt. \'a0I hain\'92t done nothing to him. \'a0He\'92s told some stretchers,\
I reckon, and I said I wouldn\'92t swallow it all; and that\'92s every bit\
and grain I _did_ say. \'a0I reckon he can stand a little thing like that,\
can\'92t he?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t care whether \'91twas little or whether \'91twas big; he\'92s here in\
our house and a stranger, and it wasn\'92t good of you to say it. \'a0If you\
was in his place it would make you feel ashamed; and so you oughtn\'92t to\
say a thing to another person that will make _them_ feel ashamed.\'94\
\
\'93Why, Mam, he said--\'94\
\
\'93It don\'92t make no difference what he _said_--that ain\'92t the thing. \'a0The\
thing is for you to treat him _kind_, and not be saying things to make\
him remember he ain\'92t in his own country and amongst his own folks.\'94\
\
I says to myself, _this_ is a girl that I\'92m letting that old reptile rob\
her of her money!\
\
Then Susan _she_ waltzed in; and if you\'92ll believe me, she did give\
Hare-lip hark from the tomb!\
\
Says I to myself, and this is _another_ one that I\'92m letting him rob her\
of her money!\
\
Then Mary Jane she took another inning, and went in sweet and lovely\
again--which was her way; but when she got done there warn\'92t hardly\
anything left o\'92 poor Hare-lip. \'a0So she hollered.\
\
\'93All right, then,\'94 says the other girls; \'93you just ask his pardon.\'94\
\
She done it, too; and she done it beautiful. \'a0She done it so beautiful\
it was good to hear; and I wished I could tell her a thousand lies, so\
she could do it again.\
\
I says to myself, this is _another_ one that I\'92m letting him rob her of\
her money. \'a0And when she got through they all jest laid theirselves\
out to make me feel at home and know I was amongst friends. \'a0I felt so\
ornery and low down and mean that I says to myself, my mind\'92s made up;\
I\'92ll hive that money for them or bust.\
\
So then I lit out--for bed, I said, meaning some time or another. \'a0When\
I got by myself I went to thinking the thing over. \'a0I says to myself,\
shall I go to that doctor, private, and blow on these frauds? \'a0No--that\
won\'92t do. He might tell who told him; then the king and the duke would\
make it warm for me. \'a0Shall I go, private, and tell Mary Jane? \'a0No--I\
dasn\'92t do it. Her face would give them a hint, sure; they\'92ve got the\
money, and they\'92d slide right out and get away with it. \'a0If she was to\
fetch in help I\'92d get mixed up in the business before it was done with,\
I judge. \'a0No; there ain\'92t no good way but one. \'a0I got to steal that\
money, somehow; and I got to steal it some way that they won\'92t suspicion\
that I done it. They\'92ve got a good thing here, and they ain\'92t a-going\
to leave till they\'92ve played this family and this town for all they\'92re\
worth, so I\'92ll find a chance time enough. I\'92ll steal it and hide it; and\
by and by, when I\'92m away down the river, I\'92ll write a letter and tell\
Mary Jane where it\'92s hid. \'a0But I better hive it tonight if I can,\
because the doctor maybe hasn\'92t let up as much as he lets on he has; he\
might scare them out of here yet.\
\
So, thinks I, I\'92ll go and search them rooms. \'a0Upstairs the hall was\
dark, but I found the duke\'92s room, and started to paw around it with\
my hands; but I recollected it wouldn\'92t be much like the king to let\
anybody else take care of that money but his own self; so then I went to\
his room and begun to paw around there. \'a0But I see I couldn\'92t do nothing\
without a candle, and I dasn\'92t light one, of course. \'a0So I judged I\'92d\
got to do the other thing--lay for them and eavesdrop. \'a0About that time\
I hears their footsteps coming, and was going to skip under the bed; I\
reached for it, but it wasn\'92t where I thought it would be; but I touched\
the curtain that hid Mary Jane\'92s frocks, so I jumped in behind that and\
snuggled in amongst the gowns, and stood there perfectly still.\
\
They come in and shut the door; and the first thing the duke done was to\
get down and look under the bed. \'a0Then I was glad I hadn\'92t found the bed\
when I wanted it. \'a0And yet, you know, it\'92s kind of natural to hide under\
the bed when you are up to anything private. \'a0They sets down then, and\
the king says:\
\
\'93Well, what is it? \'a0And cut it middlin\'92 short, because it\'92s better for\
us to be down there a-whoopin\'92 up the mournin\'92 than up here givin\'92 \'91em a\
chance to talk us over.\'94\
\
\'93Well, this is it, Capet. \'a0I ain\'92t easy; I ain\'92t comfortable. \'a0That\
doctor lays on my mind. \'a0I wanted to know your plans. \'a0I\'92ve got a\
notion, and I think it\'92s a sound one.\'94\
\
\'93What is it, duke?\'94\
\
\'93That we better glide out of this before three in the morning, and clip\
it down the river with what we\'92ve got. \'a0Specially, seeing we got it so\
easy--_given_ back to us, flung at our heads, as you may say, when of\
course we allowed to have to steal it back. \'a0I\'92m for knocking off and\
lighting out.\'94\
\
That made me feel pretty bad. \'a0About an hour or two ago it would a been\
a little different, but now it made me feel bad and disappointed, The\
king rips out and says:\
\
\'93What! \'a0And not sell out the rest o\'92 the property? \'a0March off like\
a passel of fools and leave eight or nine thous\'92n\'92 dollars\'92 worth o\'92\
property layin\'92 around jest sufferin\'92 to be scooped in?--and all good,\
salable stuff, too.\'94\
\
The duke he grumbled; said the bag of gold was enough, and he didn\'92t\
want to go no deeper--didn\'92t want to rob a lot of orphans of _everything_\
they had.\
\
\'93Why, how you talk!\'94 says the king.  \'93We sha\'92n\'92t rob \'91em of nothing at\
all but jest this money. \'a0The people that _buys_ the property is the\
suff\'92rers; because as soon \'91s it\'92s found out \'91at we didn\'92t own it--which\
won\'92t be long after we\'92ve slid--the sale won\'92t be valid, and it \'91ll all\
go back to the estate. \'a0These yer orphans \'91ll git their house back agin,\
and that\'92s enough for _them_; they\'92re young and spry, and k\'92n easy\
earn a livin\'92. \'a0_they_ ain\'92t a-goin to suffer. \'a0Why, jest think--there\'92s\
thous\'92n\'92s and thous\'92n\'92s that ain\'92t nigh so well off. \'a0Bless you, _they_\
ain\'92t got noth\'92n\'92 to complain of.\'94\
\
Well, the king he talked him blind; so at last he give in, and said all\
right, but said he believed it was blamed foolishness to stay, and that\
doctor hanging over them. \'a0But the king says:\
\
\'93Cuss the doctor! \'a0What do we k\'92yer for _him_? \'a0Hain\'92t we got all the\
fools in town on our side? \'a0And ain\'92t that a big enough majority in any\
town?\'94\
\
So they got ready to go down stairs again. \'a0The duke says:\
\
\'93I don\'92t think we put that money in a good place.\'94\
\
That cheered me up. \'a0I\'92d begun to think I warn\'92t going to get a hint of\
no kind to help me. \'a0The king says:\
\
\'93Why?\'94\
\
\'93Because Mary Jane \'91ll be in mourning from this out; and first you know\
the nigger that does up the rooms will get an order to box these duds\
up and put \'91em away; and do you reckon a nigger can run across money and\
not borrow some of it?\'94\
\
\'93Your head\'92s level agin, duke,\'94 says the king; and he comes a-fumbling\
under the curtain two or three foot from where I was. \'a0I stuck tight to\
the wall and kept mighty still, though quivery; and I wondered what them\
fellows would say to me if they catched me; and I tried to think what\
I\'92d better do if they did catch me. \'a0But the king he got the bag before\
I could think more than about a half a thought, and he never suspicioned\
I was around. \'a0They took and shoved the bag through a rip in the straw\
tick that was under the feather-bed, and crammed it in a foot or two\
amongst the straw and said it was all right now, because a nigger only\
makes up the feather-bed, and don\'92t turn over the straw tick only about\
twice a year, and so it warn\'92t in no danger of getting stole now.\
\
But I knowed better. \'a0I had it out of there before they was half-way\
down stairs. \'a0I groped along up to my cubby, and hid it there till I\
could get a chance to do better. \'a0I judged I better hide it outside\
of the house somewheres, because if they missed it they would give the\
house a good ransacking: \'a0I knowed that very well. \'a0Then I turned in,\
with my clothes all on; but I couldn\'92t a gone to sleep if I\'92d a wanted\
to, I was in such a sweat to get through with the business. \'a0By and by I\
heard the king and the duke come up; so I rolled off my pallet and laid\
with my chin at the top of my ladder, and waited to see if anything was\
going to happen. \'a0But nothing did.\
\
So I held on till all the late sounds had quit and the early ones hadn\'92t\
begun yet; and then I slipped down the ladder.\
\
\
\
\
CHAPTER XXVII.\
\
I crept to their doors and listened; they was snoring. \'a0So I tiptoed\
along, and got down stairs all right. \'a0There warn\'92t a sound anywheres.\
\'a0I peeped through a crack of the dining-room door, and see the men that\
was watching the corpse all sound asleep on their chairs. \'a0The door\
was open into the parlor, where the corpse was laying, and there was a\
candle in both rooms. I passed along, and the parlor door was open; but\
I see there warn\'92t nobody in there but the remainders of Peter; so I\
shoved on by; but the front door was locked, and the key wasn\'92t there.\
\'a0Just then I heard somebody coming down the stairs, back behind me. \'a0I\
run in the parlor and took a swift look around, and the only place I\
see to hide the bag was in the coffin. \'a0The lid was shoved along about\
a foot, showing the dead man\'92s face down in there, with a wet cloth over\
it, and his shroud on. \'a0I tucked the money-bag in under the lid, just\
down beyond where his hands was crossed, which made me creep, they was\
so cold, and then I run back across the room and in behind the door.\
\
The person coming was Mary Jane. \'a0She went to the coffin, very soft, and\
kneeled down and looked in; then she put up her handkerchief, and I see\
she begun to cry, though I couldn\'92t hear her, and her back was to me. \'a0I\
slid out, and as I passed the dining-room I thought I\'92d make sure them\
watchers hadn\'92t seen me; so I looked through the crack, and everything\
was all right. \'a0They hadn\'92t stirred.\
\
I slipped up to bed, feeling ruther blue, on accounts of the thing\
playing out that way after I had took so much trouble and run so much\
resk about it. \'a0Says I, if it could stay where it is, all right; because\
when we get down the river a hundred mile or two I could write back to\
Mary Jane, and she could dig him up again and get it; but that ain\'92t the\
thing that\'92s going to happen; the thing that\'92s going to happen is, the\
money \'91ll be found when they come to screw on the lid. \'a0Then the king\
\'91ll get it again, and it \'91ll be a long day before he gives anybody\
another chance to smouch it from him. Of course I _wanted_ to slide\
down and get it out of there, but I dasn\'92t try it. \'a0Every minute it was\
getting earlier now, and pretty soon some of them watchers would begin\
to stir, and I might get catched--catched with six thousand dollars in my\
hands that nobody hadn\'92t hired me to take care of. \'a0I don\'92t wish to be\
mixed up in no such business as that, I says to myself.\
\
When I got down stairs in the morning the parlor was shut up, and the\
watchers was gone. \'a0There warn\'92t nobody around but the family and the\
widow Bartley and our tribe. \'a0I watched their faces to see if anything\
had been happening, but I couldn\'92t tell.\
\
Towards the middle of the day the undertaker come with his man, and they\
set the coffin in the middle of the room on a couple of chairs, and then\
set all our chairs in rows, and borrowed more from the neighbors till\
the hall and the parlor and the dining-room was full. \'a0I see the coffin\
lid was the way it was before, but I dasn\'92t go to look in under it, with\
folks around.\
\
Then the people begun to flock in, and the beats and the girls took\
seats in the front row at the head of the coffin, and for a half an hour\
the people filed around slow, in single rank, and looked down at the\
dead man\'92s face a minute, and some dropped in a tear, and it was\
all very still and solemn, only the girls and the beats holding\
handkerchiefs to their eyes and keeping their heads bent, and sobbing a\
little. \'a0There warn\'92t no other sound but the scraping of the feet on\
the floor and blowing noses--because people always blows them more at a\
funeral than they do at other places except church.\
\
When the place was packed full the undertaker he slid around in his\
black gloves with his softy soothering ways, putting on the last\
touches, and getting people and things all ship-shape and comfortable,\
and making no more sound than a cat. \'a0He never spoke; he moved people\
around, he squeezed in late ones, he opened up passageways, and done\
it with nods, and signs with his hands. \'a0Then he took his place over\
against the wall. He was the softest, glidingest, stealthiest man I ever\
see; and there warn\'92t no more smile to him than there is to a ham.\
\
They had borrowed a melodeum--a sick one; and when everything was ready\
a young woman set down and worked it, and it was pretty skreeky and\
colicky, and everybody joined in and sung, and Peter was the only one\
that had a good thing, according to my notion. \'a0Then the Reverend Hobson\
opened up, slow and solemn, and begun to talk; and straight off the most\
outrageous row busted out in the cellar a body ever heard; it was only\
one dog, but he made a most powerful racket, and he kept it up right\
along; the parson he had to stand there, over the coffin, and wait--you\
couldn\'92t hear yourself think. \'a0It was right down awkward, and nobody\
didn\'92t seem to know what to do. \'a0But pretty soon they see that\
long-legged undertaker make a sign to the preacher as much as to say,\
\'93Don\'92t you worry--just depend on me.\'94 \'a0Then he stooped down and begun\
to glide along the wall, just his shoulders showing over the people\'92s\
heads. \'a0So he glided along, and the powwow and racket getting more and\
more outrageous all the time; and at last, when he had gone around two\
sides of the room, he disappears down cellar. \'a0Then in about two seconds\
we heard a whack, and the dog he finished up with a most amazing howl or\
two, and then everything was dead still, and the parson begun his solemn\
talk where he left off. \'a0In a minute or two here comes this undertaker\'92s\
back and shoulders gliding along the wall again; and so he glided and\
glided around three sides of the room, and then rose up, and shaded his\
mouth with his hands, and stretched his neck out towards the preacher,\
over the people\'92s heads, and says, in a kind of a coarse whisper, \'93_He\
had a rat_!\'94 \'a0Then he drooped down and glided along the wall again to\
his place. \'a0You could see it was a great satisfaction to the people,\
because naturally they wanted to know. \'a0A little thing like that don\'92t\
cost nothing, and it\'92s just the little things that makes a man to be\
looked up to and liked. \'a0There warn\'92t no more popular man in town than\
what that undertaker was.\
\
Well, the funeral sermon was very good, but pison long and tiresome; and\
then the king he shoved in and got off some of his usual rubbage, and\
at last the job was through, and the undertaker begun to sneak up on the\
coffin with his screw-driver. \'a0I was in a sweat then, and watched him\
pretty keen. But he never meddled at all; just slid the lid along as\
soft as mush, and screwed it down tight and fast. \'a0So there I was! \'a0I\
didn\'92t know whether the money was in there or not. \'a0So, says I, s\'92pose\
somebody has hogged that bag on the sly?--now how do I know whether\
to write to Mary Jane or not? S\'92pose she dug him up and didn\'92t find\
nothing, what would she think of me? Blame it, I says, I might get\
hunted up and jailed; I\'92d better lay low and keep dark, and not write at\
all; the thing\'92s awful mixed now; trying to better it, I\'92ve worsened it\
a hundred times, and I wish to goodness I\'92d just let it alone, dad fetch\
the whole business!\
\
They buried him, and we come back home, and I went to watching faces\
again--I couldn\'92t help it, and I couldn\'92t rest easy. \'a0But nothing come of\
it; the faces didn\'92t tell me nothing.\
\
The king he visited around in the evening, and sweetened everybody up,\
and made himself ever so friendly; and he give out the idea that his\
congregation over in England would be in a sweat about him, so he must\
hurry and settle up the estate right away and leave for home. \'a0He was\
very sorry he was so pushed, and so was everybody; they wished he could\
stay longer, but they said they could see it couldn\'92t be done. \'a0And he\
said of course him and William would take the girls home with them; and\
that pleased everybody too, because then the girls would be well fixed\
and amongst their own relations; and it pleased the girls, too--tickled\
them so they clean forgot they ever had a trouble in the world; and told\
him to sell out as quick as he wanted to, they would be ready. \'a0Them\
poor things was that glad and happy it made my heart ache to see them\
getting fooled and lied to so, but I didn\'92t see no safe way for me to\
chip in and change the general tune.\
\
Well, blamed if the king didn\'92t bill the house and the niggers and all\
the property for auction straight off--sale two days after the funeral;\
but anybody could buy private beforehand if they wanted to.\
\
So the next day after the funeral, along about noon-time, the girls\'92 joy\
got the first jolt. \'a0A couple of nigger traders come along, and the king\
sold them the niggers reasonable, for three-day drafts as they called\
it, and away they went, the two sons up the river to Memphis, and their\
mother down the river to Orleans. \'a0I thought them poor girls and them\
niggers would break their hearts for grief; they cried around each\
other, and took on so it most made me down sick to see it. \'a0The girls\
said they hadn\'92t ever dreamed of seeing the family separated or sold\
away from the town. \'a0I can\'92t ever get it out of my memory, the sight of\
them poor miserable girls and niggers hanging around each other\'92s necks\
and crying; and I reckon I couldn\'92t a stood it all, but would a had\
to bust out and tell on our gang if I hadn\'92t knowed the sale warn\'92t no\
account and the niggers would be back home in a week or two.\
\
The thing made a big stir in the town, too, and a good many come out\
flatfooted and said it was scandalous to separate the mother and the\
children that way. \'a0It injured the frauds some; but the old fool he\
bulled right along, spite of all the duke could say or do, and I tell\
you the duke was powerful uneasy.\
\
Next day was auction day. \'a0About broad day in the morning the king and\
the duke come up in the garret and woke me up, and I see by their look\
that there was trouble. \'a0The king says:\
\
\'93Was you in my room night before last?\'94\
\
\'93No, your majesty\'94--which was the way I always called him when nobody but\
our gang warn\'92t around.\
\
\'93Was you in there yisterday er last night?\'94\
\
\'93No, your majesty.\'94\
\
\'93Honor bright, now--no lies.\'94\
\
\'93Honor bright, your majesty, I\'92m telling you the truth. \'a0I hain\'92t been\
a-near your room since Miss Mary Jane took you and the duke and showed\
it to you.\'94\
\
The duke says:\
\
\'93Have you seen anybody else go in there?\'94\
\
\'93No, your grace, not as I remember, I believe.\'94\
\
\'93Stop and think.\'94\
\
I studied awhile and see my chance; then I says:\
\
\'93Well, I see the niggers go in there several times.\'94\
\
Both of them gave a little jump, and looked like they hadn\'92t ever\
expected it, and then like they _had_. \'a0Then the duke says:\
\
\'93What, all of them?\'94\
\
\'93No--leastways, not all at once--that is, I don\'92t think I ever see them\
all come _out_ at once but just one time.\'94\
\
\'93Hello! \'a0When was that?\'94\
\
\'93It was the day we had the funeral. \'a0In the morning. \'a0It warn\'92t early,\
because I overslept. \'a0I was just starting down the ladder, and I see\
them.\'94\
\
\'93Well, go on, _go_ on! \'a0What did they do? \'a0How\'92d they act?\'94\
\
\'93They didn\'92t do nothing. \'a0And they didn\'92t act anyway much, as fur as I\
see. They tiptoed away; so I seen, easy enough, that they\'92d shoved in\
there to do up your majesty\'92s room, or something, s\'92posing you was up;\
and found you _warn\'92t_ up, and so they was hoping to slide out of the\
way of trouble without waking you up, if they hadn\'92t already waked you\
up.\'94\
\
\'93Great guns, _this_ is a go!\'94 says the king; and both of them looked\
pretty sick and tolerable silly. \'a0They stood there a-thinking and\
scratching their heads a minute, and the duke he bust into a kind of a\
little raspy chuckle, and says:\
\
\'93It does beat all how neat the niggers played their hand. \'a0They let on\
to be _sorry_ they was going out of this region! \'a0And I believed they\
_was_ sorry, and so did you, and so did everybody. \'a0Don\'92t ever tell _me_\
any more that a nigger ain\'92t got any histrionic talent. \'a0Why, the way\
they played that thing it would fool _anybody_. \'a0In my opinion, there\'92s\
a fortune in \'91em. \'a0If I had capital and a theater, I wouldn\'92t want a\
better lay-out than that--and here we\'92ve gone and sold \'91em for a song.\
\'a0Yes, and ain\'92t privileged to sing the song yet. \'a0Say, where _is_ that\
song--that draft?\'94\
\
\'93In the bank for to be collected. \'a0Where _would_ it be?\'94\
\
\'93Well, _that\'92s_ all right then, thank goodness.\'94\
\
Says I, kind of timid-like:\
\
\'93Is something gone wrong?\'94\
\
The king whirls on me and rips out:\
\
\'93None o\'92 your business! \'a0You keep your head shet, and mind y\'92r own\
affairs--if you got any. \'a0Long as you\'92re in this town don\'92t you forgit\
_that_--you hear?\'94 \'a0Then he says to the duke, \'93We got to jest swaller it\
and say noth\'92n\'92: \'a0mum\'92s the word for _us_.\'94\
\
As they was starting down the ladder the duke he chuckles again, and\
says:\
\
\'93Quick sales _and_ small profits! \'a0It\'92s a good business--yes.\'94\
\
The king snarls around on him and says:\
\
\'93I was trying to do for the best in sellin\'92 \'91em out so quick. \'a0If the\
profits has turned out to be none, lackin\'92 considable, and none to\
carry, is it my fault any more\'92n it\'92s yourn?\'94\
\
\'93Well, _they\'92d_ be in this house yet and we _wouldn\'92t_ if I could a got\
my advice listened to.\'94\
\
The king sassed back as much as was safe for him, and then swapped\
around and lit into _me_ again. \'a0He give me down the banks for not\
coming and _telling_ him I see the niggers come out of his room acting\
that way--said any fool would a _knowed_ something was up. \'a0And then\
waltzed in and cussed _himself_ awhile, and said it all come of him not\
laying late and taking his natural rest that morning, and he\'92d be\
blamed if he\'92d ever do it again. \'a0So they went off a-jawing; and I felt\
dreadful glad I\'92d worked it all off on to the niggers, and yet hadn\'92t\
done the niggers no harm by it.\
\
\
\
\
CHAPTER XXVIII.\
\
BY and by it was getting-up time. \'a0So I come down the ladder and started\
for down-stairs; but as I come to the girls\'92 room the door was open, and\
I see Mary Jane setting by her old hair trunk, which was open and she\'92d\
been packing things in it--getting ready to go to England. \'a0But she\
had stopped now with a folded gown in her lap, and had her face in her\
hands, crying. \'a0I felt awful bad to see it; of course anybody would. \'a0I\
went in there and says:\
\
\'93Miss Mary Jane, you can\'92t a-bear to see people in trouble, and I\
can\'92t--most always. \'a0Tell me about it.\'94\
\
So she done it. \'a0And it was the niggers--I just expected it. \'a0She said\
the beautiful trip to England was most about spoiled for her; she didn\'92t\
know _how_ she was ever going to be happy there, knowing the mother and\
the children warn\'92t ever going to see each other no more--and then busted\
out bitterer than ever, and flung up her hands, and says:\
\
\'93Oh, dear, dear, to think they ain\'92t _ever_ going to see each other any\
more!\'94\
\
\'93But they _will_--and inside of two weeks--and I _know_ it!\'94 says I.\
\
Laws, it was out before I could think! \'a0And before I could budge she\
throws her arms around my neck and told me to say it _again_, say it\
_again_, say it _again_!\
\
I see I had spoke too sudden and said too much, and was in a close\
place. I asked her to let me think a minute; and she set there, very\
impatient and excited and handsome, but looking kind of happy and\
eased-up, like a person that\'92s had a tooth pulled out. \'a0So I went to\
studying it out. \'a0I says to myself, I reckon a body that ups and tells\
the truth when he is in a tight place is taking considerable many resks,\
though I ain\'92t had no experience, and can\'92t say for certain; but it\
looks so to me, anyway; and yet here\'92s a case where I\'92m blest if it\
don\'92t look to me like the truth is better and actuly _safer_ than a lie.\
\'a0I must lay it by in my mind, and think it over some time or other, it\'92s\
so kind of strange and unregular. I never see nothing like it. \'a0Well, I\
says to myself at last, I\'92m a-going to chance it; I\'92ll up and tell the\
truth this time, though it does seem most like setting down on a kag of\
powder and touching it off just to see where you\'92ll go to. Then I says:\
\
\'93Miss Mary Jane, is there any place out of town a little ways where you\
could go and stay three or four days?\'94\
\
\'93Yes; Mr. Lothrop\'92s. \'a0Why?\'94\
\
\'93Never mind why yet. \'a0If I\'92ll tell you how I know the niggers will see\
each other again inside of two weeks--here in this house--and _prove_ how\
I know it--will you go to Mr. Lothrop\'92s and stay four days?\'94\
\
\'93Four days!\'94 she says; \'93I\'92ll stay a year!\'94\
\
\'93All right,\'94 I says, \'93I don\'92t want nothing more out of _you_ than just\
your word--I druther have it than another man\'92s kiss-the-Bible.\'94 \'a0She\
smiled and reddened up very sweet, and I says, \'93If you don\'92t mind it,\
I\'92ll shut the door--and bolt it.\'94\
\
Then I come back and set down again, and says:\
\
\'93Don\'92t you holler. \'a0Just set still and take it like a man. \'a0I got to\
tell the truth, and you want to brace up, Miss Mary, because it\'92s a\
bad kind, and going to be hard to take, but there ain\'92t no help for\
it. \'a0These uncles of yourn ain\'92t no uncles at all; they\'92re a couple of\
frauds--regular dead-beats. \'a0There, now we\'92re over the worst of it, you\
can stand the rest middling easy.\'94\
\
It jolted her up like everything, of course; but I was over the shoal\
water now, so I went right along, her eyes a-blazing higher and higher\
all the time, and told her every blame thing, from where we first struck\
that young fool going up to the steamboat, clear through to where she\
flung herself on to the king\'92s breast at the front door and he kissed\
her sixteen or seventeen times--and then up she jumps, with her face\
afire like sunset, and says:\
\
\'93The brute! \'a0Come, don\'92t waste a minute--not a _second_--we\'92ll have them\
tarred and feathered, and flung in the river!\'94\
\
Says I:\
\
\'93Cert\'92nly. \'a0But do you mean _before_ you go to Mr. Lothrop\'92s, or--\'94\
\
\'93Oh,\'94 she says, \'93what am I _thinking_ about!\'94 she says, and set right\
down again.  \'93Don\'92t mind what I said--please don\'92t--you _won\'92t,_ now,\
_will_ you?\'94 Laying her silky hand on mine in that kind of a way that\
I said I would die first.  \'93I never thought, I was so stirred up,\'94 she\
says; \'93now go on, and I won\'92t do so any more. \'a0You tell me what to do,\
and whatever you say I\'92ll do it.\'94\
\
\'93Well,\'94 I says, \'93it\'92s a rough gang, them two frauds, and I\'92m fixed so\
I got to travel with them a while longer, whether I want to or not--I\
druther not tell you why; and if you was to blow on them this town would\
get me out of their claws, and I\'92d be all right; but there\'92d be another\
person that you don\'92t know about who\'92d be in big trouble. \'a0Well, we\
got to save _him_, hain\'92t we? \'a0Of course. \'a0Well, then, we won\'92t blow on\
them.\'94\
\
Saying them words put a good idea in my head. \'a0I see how maybe I could\
get me and Jim rid of the frauds; get them jailed here, and then leave.\
But I didn\'92t want to run the raft in the daytime without anybody aboard\
to answer questions but me; so I didn\'92t want the plan to begin working\
till pretty late to-night. \'a0I says:\
\
\'93Miss Mary Jane, I\'92ll tell you what we\'92ll do, and you won\'92t have to stay\
at Mr. Lothrop\'92s so long, nuther. \'a0How fur is it?\'94\
\
\'93A little short of four miles--right out in the country, back here.\'94\
\
\'93Well, that \'91ll answer. \'a0Now you go along out there, and lay low\
till nine or half-past to-night, and then get them to fetch you home\
again--tell them you\'92ve thought of something. \'a0If you get here before\
eleven put a candle in this window, and if I don\'92t turn up wait _till_\
eleven, and _then_ if I don\'92t turn up it means I\'92m gone, and out of the\
way, and safe. Then you come out and spread the news around, and get\
these beats jailed.\'94\
\
\'93Good,\'94 she says, \'93I\'92ll do it.\'94\
\
\'93And if it just happens so that I don\'92t get away, but get took up along\
with them, you must up and say I told you the whole thing beforehand,\
and you must stand by me all you can.\'94\
\
\'93Stand by you! indeed I will. \'a0They sha\'92n\'92t touch a hair of your head!\'94\
 she says, and I see her nostrils spread and her eyes snap when she said\
it, too.\
\
\'93If I get away I sha\'92n\'92t be here,\'94 I says, \'93to prove these rapscallions\
ain\'92t your uncles, and I couldn\'92t do it if I _was_ here. \'a0I could swear\
they was beats and bummers, that\'92s all, though that\'92s worth something.\
Well, there\'92s others can do that better than what I can, and they\'92re\
people that ain\'92t going to be doubted as quick as I\'92d be. \'a0I\'92ll tell you\
how to find them. \'a0Gimme a pencil and a piece of paper. \'a0There--\'91Royal\
Nonesuch, Bricksville.\'92 \'a0Put it away, and don\'92t lose it. \'a0When the\
court wants to find out something about these two, let them send up to\
Bricksville and say they\'92ve got the men that played the Royal Nonesuch,\
and ask for some witnesses--why, you\'92ll have that entire town down here\
before you can hardly wink, Miss Mary. \'a0And they\'92ll come a-biling, too.\'94\
\
I judged we had got everything fixed about right now. \'a0So I says:\
\
\'93Just let the auction go right along, and don\'92t worry. \'a0Nobody don\'92t\
have to pay for the things they buy till a whole day after the auction\
on accounts of the short notice, and they ain\'92t going out of this till\
they get that money; and the way we\'92ve fixed it the sale ain\'92t going to\
count, and they ain\'92t going to get no money. \'a0It\'92s just like the way\
it was with the niggers--it warn\'92t no sale, and the niggers will be\
back before long. \'a0Why, they can\'92t collect the money for the _niggers_\
yet--they\'92re in the worst kind of a fix, Miss Mary.\'94\
\
\'93Well,\'94 she says, \'93I\'92ll run down to breakfast now, and then I\'92ll start\
straight for Mr. Lothrop\'92s.\'94\
\
\'93\'91Deed, _that_ ain\'92t the ticket, Miss Mary Jane,\'94 I says, \'93by no manner\
of means; go _before_ breakfast.\'94\
\
\'93Why?\'94\
\
\'93What did you reckon I wanted you to go at all for, Miss Mary?\'94\
\
\'93Well, I never thought--and come to think, I don\'92t know. \'a0What was it?\'94\
\
\'93Why, it\'92s because you ain\'92t one of these leather-face people. \'a0I don\'92t\
want no better book than what your face is. \'a0A body can set down and\
read it off like coarse print. \'a0Do you reckon you can go and face your\
uncles when they come to kiss you good-morning, and never--\'94\
\
\'93There, there, don\'92t! \'a0Yes, I\'92ll go before breakfast--I\'92ll be glad to.\
And leave my sisters with them?\'94\
\
\'93Yes; never mind about them. \'a0They\'92ve got to stand it yet a while. \'a0They\
might suspicion something if all of you was to go. \'a0I don\'92t want you to\
see them, nor your sisters, nor nobody in this town; if a neighbor was\
to ask how is your uncles this morning your face would tell something.\
\'a0No, you go right along, Miss Mary Jane, and I\'92ll fix it with all of\
them. I\'92ll tell Miss Susan to give your love to your uncles and say\
you\'92ve went away for a few hours for to get a little rest and change, or\
to see a friend, and you\'92ll be back to-night or early in the morning.\'94\
\
\'93Gone to see a friend is all right, but I won\'92t have my love given to\
them.\'94\
\
\'93Well, then, it sha\'92n\'92t be.\'94 \'a0It was well enough to tell _her_ so--no\
harm in it. \'a0It was only a little thing to do, and no trouble; and it\'92s\
the little things that smooths people\'92s roads the most, down here below;\
it would make Mary Jane comfortable, and it wouldn\'92t cost nothing. \'a0Then\
I says:  \'93There\'92s one more thing--that bag of money.\'94\
\
\'93Well, they\'92ve got that; and it makes me feel pretty silly to think\
_how_ they got it.\'94\
\
\'93No, you\'92re out, there. \'a0They hain\'92t got it.\'94\
\
\'93Why, who\'92s got it?\'94\
\
\'93I wish I knowed, but I don\'92t. \'a0I _had_ it, because I stole it from\
them; and I stole it to give to you; and I know where I hid it, but I\'92m\
afraid it ain\'92t there no more. \'a0I\'92m awful sorry, Miss Mary Jane, I\'92m\
just as sorry as I can be; but I done the best I could; I did honest. \'a0I\
come nigh getting caught, and I had to shove it into the first place I\
come to, and run--and it warn\'92t a good place.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, stop blaming yourself--it\'92s too bad to do it, and I won\'92t allow\
it--you couldn\'92t help it; it wasn\'92t your fault. \'a0Where did you hide it?\'94\
\
I didn\'92t want to set her to thinking about her troubles again; and I\
couldn\'92t seem to get my mouth to tell her what would make her see that\
corpse laying in the coffin with that bag of money on his stomach. \'a0So\
for a minute I didn\'92t say nothing; then I says:\
\
\'93I\'92d ruther not _tell_ you where I put it, Miss Mary Jane, if you don\'92t\
mind letting me off; but I\'92ll write it for you on a piece of paper, and\
you can read it along the road to Mr. Lothrop\'92s, if you want to. \'a0Do you\
reckon that \'91ll do?\'94\
\
\'93Oh, yes.\'94\
\
So I wrote:  \'93I put it in the coffin. \'a0It was in there when you was\
crying there, away in the night. \'a0I was behind the door, and I was\
mighty sorry for you, Miss Mary Jane.\'94\
\
It made my eyes water a little to remember her crying there all by\
herself in the night, and them devils laying there right under her own\
roof, shaming her and robbing her; and when I folded it up and give it\
to her I see the water come into her eyes, too; and she shook me by the\
hand, hard, and says:\
\
\'93_Good_-bye. \'a0I\'92m going to do everything just as you\'92ve told me; and if\
I don\'92t ever see you again, I sha\'92n\'92t ever forget you and I\'92ll think of\
you a many and a many a time, and I\'92ll _pray_ for you, too!\'94--and she was\
gone.\
\
Pray for me! \'a0I reckoned if she knowed me she\'92d take a job that was more\
nearer her size. \'a0But I bet she done it, just the same--she was just that\
kind. \'a0She had the grit to pray for Judus if she took the notion--there\
warn\'92t no back-down to her, I judge. \'a0You may say what you want to, but\
in my opinion she had more sand in her than any girl I ever see; in\
my opinion she was just full of sand. \'a0It sounds like flattery, but it\
ain\'92t no flattery. \'a0And when it comes to beauty--and goodness, too--she\
lays over them all. \'a0I hain\'92t ever seen her since that time that I see\
her go out of that door; no, I hain\'92t ever seen her since, but I reckon\
I\'92ve thought of her a many and a many a million times, and of her saying\
she would pray for me; and if ever I\'92d a thought it would do any good\
for me to pray for _her_, blamed if I wouldn\'92t a done it or bust.\
\
Well, Mary Jane she lit out the back way, I reckon; because nobody see\
her go. \'a0When I struck Susan and the hare-lip, I says:\
\
\'93What\'92s the name of them people over on t\'92other side of the river that\
you all goes to see sometimes?\'94\
\
They says:\
\
\'93There\'92s several; but it\'92s the Proctors, mainly.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s the name,\'94 I says; \'93I most forgot it. \'a0Well, Miss Mary Jane she\
told me to tell you she\'92s gone over there in a dreadful hurry--one of\
them\'92s sick.\'94\
\
\'93Which one?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know; leastways, I kinder forget; but I thinks it\'92s--\'94\
\
\'93Sakes alive, I hope it ain\'92t _Hanner_?\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m sorry to say it,\'94 I says, \'93but Hanner\'92s the very one.\'94\
\
\'93My goodness, and she so well only last week! \'a0Is she took bad?\'94\
\
\'93It ain\'92t no name for it. \'a0They set up with her all night, Miss Mary\
Jane said, and they don\'92t think she\'92ll last many hours.\'94\
\
\'93Only think of that, now! \'a0What\'92s the matter with her?\'94\
\
I couldn\'92t think of anything reasonable, right off that way, so I says:\
\
\'93Mumps.\'94\
\
\'93Mumps your granny! \'a0They don\'92t set up with people that\'92s got the\
mumps.\'94\
\
\'93They don\'92t, don\'92t they? \'a0You better bet they do with _these_ mumps.\
\'a0These mumps is different. \'a0It\'92s a new kind, Miss Mary Jane said.\'94\
\
\'93How\'92s it a new kind?\'94\
\
\'93Because it\'92s mixed up with other things.\'94\
\
\'93What other things?\'94\
\
\'93Well, measles, and whooping-cough, and erysiplas, and consumption, and\
yaller janders, and brain-fever, and I don\'92t know what all.\'94\
\
\'93My land! \'a0And they call it the _mumps_?\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s what Miss Mary Jane said.\'94\
\
\'93Well, what in the nation do they call it the _mumps_ for?\'94\
\
\'93Why, because it _is_ the mumps. \'a0That\'92s what it starts with.\'94\
\
\'93Well, ther\'92 ain\'92t no sense in it. \'a0A body might stump his toe, and take\
pison, and fall down the well, and break his neck, and bust his brains\
out, and somebody come along and ask what killed him, and some numskull\
up and say, \'91Why, he stumped his _toe_.\'92 \'a0Would ther\'92 be any sense\
in that? _No_. \'a0And ther\'92 ain\'92t no sense in _this_, nuther. \'a0Is it\
ketching?\'94\
\
\'93Is it _ketching_? \'a0Why, how you talk. \'a0Is a _harrow_ catching--in the\
dark? If you don\'92t hitch on to one tooth, you\'92re bound to on another,\
ain\'92t you? And you can\'92t get away with that tooth without fetching the\
whole harrow along, can you? \'a0Well, these kind of mumps is a kind of a\
harrow, as you may say--and it ain\'92t no slouch of a harrow, nuther, you\
come to get it hitched on good.\'94\
\
\'93Well, it\'92s awful, I think,\'94 says the hare-lip.  \'93I\'92ll go to Uncle\
Harvey and--\'94\
\
\'93Oh, yes,\'94 I says, \'93I _would_. \'a0Of _course_ I would. \'a0I wouldn\'92t lose no\
time.\'94\
\
\'93Well, why wouldn\'92t you?\'94\
\
\'93Just look at it a minute, and maybe you can see. \'a0Hain\'92t your uncles\
obleegd to get along home to England as fast as they can? \'a0And do you\
reckon they\'92d be mean enough to go off and leave you to go all that\
journey by yourselves? \'a0_you_ know they\'92ll wait for you. \'a0So fur, so\
good. Your uncle Harvey\'92s a preacher, ain\'92t he? \'a0Very well, then; is a\
_preacher_ going to deceive a steamboat clerk? is he going to deceive\
a _ship clerk?_--so as to get them to let Miss Mary Jane go aboard? \'a0Now\
_you_ know he ain\'92t. \'a0What _will_ he do, then? \'a0Why, he\'92ll say, \'91It\'92s a\
great pity, but my church matters has got to get along the best way they\
can; for my niece has been exposed to the dreadful pluribus-unum mumps,\
and so it\'92s my bounden duty to set down here and wait the three months\
it takes to show on her if she\'92s got it.\'92 \'a0But never mind, if you think\
it\'92s best to tell your uncle Harvey--\'94\
\
\'93Shucks, and stay fooling around here when we could all be having good\
times in England whilst we was waiting to find out whether Mary Jane\'92s\
got it or not? \'a0Why, you talk like a muggins.\'94\
\
\'93Well, anyway, maybe you\'92d better tell some of the neighbors.\'94\
\
\'93Listen at that, now. \'a0You do beat all for natural stupidness. \'a0Can\'92t\
you _see_ that _they\'92d_ go and tell? \'a0Ther\'92 ain\'92t no way but just to not\
tell anybody at _all_.\'94\
\
\'93Well, maybe you\'92re right--yes, I judge you _are_ right.\'94\
\
\'93But I reckon we ought to tell Uncle Harvey she\'92s gone out a while,\
anyway, so he won\'92t be uneasy about her?\'94\
\
\'93Yes, Miss Mary Jane she wanted you to do that. \'a0She says, \'91Tell them to\
give Uncle Harvey and William my love and a kiss, and say I\'92ve run over\
the river to see Mr.\'92--Mr.--what _is_ the name of that rich family your\
uncle Peter used to think so much of?--I mean the one that--\'94\
\
\'93Why, you must mean the Apthorps, ain\'92t it?\'94\
\
\'93Of course; bother them kind of names, a body can\'92t ever seem to\
remember them, half the time, somehow. \'a0Yes, she said, say she has run\
over for to ask the Apthorps to be sure and come to the auction and buy\
this house, because she allowed her uncle Peter would ruther they had\
it than anybody else; and she\'92s going to stick to them till they say\
they\'92ll come, and then, if she ain\'92t too tired, she\'92s coming home; and\
if she is, she\'92ll be home in the morning anyway. \'a0She said, don\'92t say\
nothing about the Proctors, but only about the Apthorps--which \'91ll be\
perfectly true, because she is going there to speak about their buying\
the house; I know it, because she told me so herself.\'94\
\
\'93All right,\'94 they said, and cleared out to lay for their uncles, and\
give them the love and the kisses, and tell them the message.\
\
Everything was all right now. \'a0The girls wouldn\'92t say nothing because\
they wanted to go to England; and the king and the duke would ruther\
Mary Jane was off working for the auction than around in reach of\
Doctor Robinson. \'a0I felt very good; I judged I had done it pretty neat--I\
reckoned Tom Sawyer couldn\'92t a done it no neater himself. \'a0Of course he\
would a throwed more style into it, but I can\'92t do that very handy, not\
being brung up to it.\
\
Well, they held the auction in the public square, along towards the end\
of the afternoon, and it strung along, and strung along, and the old man\
he was on hand and looking his level pisonest, up there longside of the\
auctioneer, and chipping in a little Scripture now and then, or a little\
goody-goody saying of some kind, and the duke he was around goo-gooing\
for sympathy all he knowed how, and just spreading himself generly.\
\
But by and by the thing dragged through, and everything was\
sold--everything but a little old trifling lot in the graveyard. \'a0So\
they\'92d got to work that off--I never see such a girafft as the king was\
for wanting to swallow _everything_. \'a0Well, whilst they was at it a\
steamboat landed, and in about two minutes up comes a crowd a-whooping\
and yelling and laughing and carrying on, and singing out:\
\
\'93_Here\'92s_ your opposition line! here\'92s your two sets o\'92 heirs to old\
Peter Wilks--and you pays your money and you takes your choice!\'94\
\
\
\
\
CHAPTER XXIX.\
\
THEY was fetching a very nice-looking old gentleman along, and a\
nice-looking younger one, with his right arm in a sling. \'a0And, my souls,\
how the people yelled and laughed, and kept it up. \'a0But I didn\'92t see no\
joke about it, and I judged it would strain the duke and the king some\
to see any. \'a0I reckoned they\'92d turn pale. \'a0But no, nary a pale did\
_they_ turn. The duke he never let on he suspicioned what was up, but\
just went a goo-gooing around, happy and satisfied, like a jug that\'92s\
googling out buttermilk; and as for the king, he just gazed and gazed\
down sorrowful on them new-comers like it give him the stomach-ache in\
his very heart to think there could be such frauds and rascals in the\
world. \'a0Oh, he done it admirable. \'a0Lots of the principal people\
gethered around the king, to let him see they was on his side. \'a0That old\
gentleman that had just come looked all puzzled to death. \'a0Pretty\
soon he begun to speak, and I see straight off he pronounced _like_ an\
Englishman--not the king\'92s way, though the king\'92s _was_ pretty good for\
an imitation. \'a0I can\'92t give the old gent\'92s words, nor I can\'92t imitate\
him; but he turned around to the crowd, and says, about like this:\
\
\'93This is a surprise to me which I wasn\'92t looking for; and I\'92ll\
acknowledge, candid and frank, I ain\'92t very well fixed to meet it and\
answer it; for my brother and me has had misfortunes; he\'92s broke his\
arm, and our baggage got put off at a town above here last night in the\
night by a mistake. \'a0I am Peter Wilks\'92 brother Harvey, and this is his\
brother William, which can\'92t hear nor speak--and can\'92t even make signs to\
amount to much, now\'92t he\'92s only got one hand to work them with. \'a0We are\
who we say we are; and in a day or two, when I get the baggage, I can\
prove it. But up till then I won\'92t say nothing more, but go to the hotel\
and wait.\'94\
\
So him and the new dummy started off; and the king he laughs, and\
blethers out:\
\
\'93Broke his arm--_very_ likely, _ain\'92t_ it?--and very convenient, too,\
for a fraud that\'92s got to make signs, and ain\'92t learnt how. \'a0Lost\
their baggage! That\'92s _mighty_ good!--and mighty ingenious--under the\
_circumstances_!\'94\
\
So he laughed again; and so did everybody else, except three or four,\
or maybe half a dozen. \'a0One of these was that doctor; another one was\
a sharp-looking gentleman, with a carpet-bag of the old-fashioned kind\
made out of carpet-stuff, that had just come off of the steamboat and\
was talking to him in a low voice, and glancing towards the king now and\
then and nodding their heads--it was Levi Bell, the lawyer that was gone\
up to Louisville; and another one was a big rough husky that come along\
and listened to all the old gentleman said, and was listening to the\
king now. And when the king got done this husky up and says:\
\
\'93Say, looky here; if you are Harvey Wilks, when\'92d you come to this\
town?\'94\
\
\'93The day before the funeral, friend,\'94 says the king.\
\
\'93But what time o\'92 day?\'94\
\
\'93In the evenin\'92--\'91bout an hour er two before sundown.\'94\
\
\'93_How\'92d_ you come?\'94\
\
\'93I come down on the Susan Powell from Cincinnati.\'94\
\
\'93Well, then, how\'92d you come to be up at the Pint in the _mornin_\'92--in a\
canoe?\'94\
\
\'93I warn\'92t up at the Pint in the mornin\'92.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s a lie.\'94\
\
Several of them jumped for him and begged him not to talk that way to an\
old man and a preacher.\
\
\'93Preacher be hanged, he\'92s a fraud and a liar. \'a0He was up at the Pint\
that mornin\'92. \'a0I live up there, don\'92t I? \'a0Well, I was up there, and\
he was up there. \'a0I see him there. \'a0He come in a canoe, along with Tim\
Collins and a boy.\'94\
\
The doctor he up and says:\
\
\'93Would you know the boy again if you was to see him, Hines?\'94\
\
\'93I reckon I would, but I don\'92t know. \'a0Why, yonder he is, now. \'a0I know\
him perfectly easy.\'94\
\
It was me he pointed at. \'a0The doctor says:\
\
\'93Neighbors, I don\'92t know whether the new couple is frauds or not; but if\
_these_ two ain\'92t frauds, I am an idiot, that\'92s all. \'a0I think it\'92s our\
duty to see that they don\'92t get away from here till we\'92ve looked into\
this thing. Come along, Hines; come along, the rest of you. \'a0We\'92ll take\
these fellows to the tavern and affront them with t\'92other couple, and I\
reckon we\'92ll find out _something_ before we get through.\'94\
\
It was nuts for the crowd, though maybe not for the king\'92s friends; so\
we all started. \'a0It was about sundown. \'a0The doctor he led me along by\
the hand, and was plenty kind enough, but he never let go my hand.\
\
We all got in a big room in the hotel, and lit up some candles, and\
fetched in the new couple. \'a0First, the doctor says:\
\
\'93I don\'92t wish to be too hard on these two men, but I think they\'92re\
frauds, and they may have complices that we don\'92t know nothing about.\
\'a0If they have, won\'92t the complices get away with that bag of gold Peter\
Wilks left? \'a0It ain\'92t unlikely. \'a0If these men ain\'92t frauds, they won\'92t\
object to sending for that money and letting us keep it till they prove\
they\'92re all right--ain\'92t that so?\'94\
\
Everybody agreed to that. \'a0So I judged they had our gang in a pretty\
tight place right at the outstart. \'a0But the king he only looked\
sorrowful, and says:\
\
\'93Gentlemen, I wish the money was there, for I ain\'92t got no disposition\
to throw anything in the way of a fair, open, out-and-out investigation\
o\'92 this misable business; but, alas, the money ain\'92t there; you k\'92n send\
and see, if you want to.\'94\
\
\'93Where is it, then?\'94\
\
\'93Well, when my niece give it to me to keep for her I took and hid it\
inside o\'92 the straw tick o\'92 my bed, not wishin\'92 to bank it for the few\
days we\'92d be here, and considerin\'92 the bed a safe place, we not bein\'92\
used to niggers, and suppos\'92n\'92 \'91em honest, like servants in England.\
\'a0The niggers stole it the very next mornin\'92 after I had went down\
stairs; and when I sold \'91em I hadn\'92t missed the money yit, so they got\
clean away with it. \'a0My servant here k\'92n tell you \'91bout it, gentlemen.\'94\
\
The doctor and several said \'93Shucks!\'94 and I see nobody didn\'92t altogether\
believe him. \'a0One man asked me if I see the niggers steal it. \'a0I said\
no, but I see them sneaking out of the room and hustling away, and I\
never thought nothing, only I reckoned they was afraid they had waked up\
my master and was trying to get away before he made trouble with them.\
\'a0That was all they asked me. \'a0Then the doctor whirls on me and says:\
\
\'93Are _you_ English, too?\'94\
\
I says yes; and him and some others laughed, and said, \'93Stuff!\'94\
\
Well, then they sailed in on the general investigation, and there we had\
it, up and down, hour in, hour out, and nobody never said a word about\
supper, nor ever seemed to think about it--and so they kept it up, and\
kept it up; and it _was_ the worst mixed-up thing you ever see. \'a0They\
made the king tell his yarn, and they made the old gentleman tell his\'92n;\
and anybody but a lot of prejudiced chuckleheads would a _seen_ that the\
old gentleman was spinning truth and t\'92other one lies. \'a0And by and by\
they had me up to tell what I knowed. \'a0The king he give me a left-handed\
look out of the corner of his eye, and so I knowed enough to talk on the\
right side. \'a0I begun to tell about Sheffield, and how we lived there,\
and all about the English Wilkses, and so on; but I didn\'92t get pretty\
fur till the doctor begun to laugh; and Levi Bell, the lawyer, says:\
\
\'93Set down, my boy; I wouldn\'92t strain myself if I was you. \'a0I reckon\
you ain\'92t used to lying, it don\'92t seem to come handy; what you want is\
practice. \'a0You do it pretty awkward.\'94\
\
I didn\'92t care nothing for the compliment, but I was glad to be let off,\
anyway.\
\
The doctor he started to say something, and turns and says:\
\
\'93If you\'92d been in town at first, Levi Bell--\'94 The king broke in and\
reached out his hand, and says:\
\
\'93Why, is this my poor dead brother\'92s old friend that he\'92s wrote so often\
about?\'94\
\
The lawyer and him shook hands, and the lawyer smiled and looked\
pleased, and they talked right along awhile, and then got to one side\
and talked low; and at last the lawyer speaks up and says:\
\
\'93That \'91ll fix it. \'a0I\'92ll take the order and send it, along with your\
brother\'92s, and then they\'92ll know it\'92s all right.\'94\
\
So they got some paper and a pen, and the king he set down and twisted\
his head to one side, and chawed his tongue, and scrawled off something;\
and then they give the pen to the duke--and then for the first time the\
duke looked sick. \'a0But he took the pen and wrote. \'a0So then the lawyer\
turns to the new old gentleman and says:\
\
\'93You and your brother please write a line or two and sign your names.\'94\
\
The old gentleman wrote, but nobody couldn\'92t read it. \'a0The lawyer looked\
powerful astonished, and says:\
\
\'93Well, it beats _me_\'94--and snaked a lot of old letters out of his pocket,\
and examined them, and then examined the old man\'92s writing, and then\
_them_ again; and then says:  \'93These old letters is from Harvey Wilks;\
and here\'92s _these_ two handwritings, and anybody can see they didn\'92t\
write them\'94 (the king and the duke looked sold and foolish, I tell\
you, to see how the lawyer had took them in), \'93and here\'92s _this_ old\
gentleman\'92s hand writing, and anybody can tell, easy enough, _he_ didn\'92t\
write them--fact is, the scratches he makes ain\'92t properly _writing_ at\
all. \'a0Now, here\'92s some letters from--\'94\
\
The new old gentleman says:\
\
\'93If you please, let me explain. \'a0Nobody can read my hand but my brother\
there--so he copies for me. \'a0It\'92s _his_ hand you\'92ve got there, not mine.\'94\
\
\'93_Well_!\'94 says the lawyer, \'93this _is_ a state of things. \'a0I\'92ve got some\
of William\'92s letters, too; so if you\'92ll get him to write a line or so we\
can com--\'94\
\
\'93He _can\'92t_ write with his left hand,\'94 says the old gentleman.  \'93If he\
could use his right hand, you would see that he wrote his own letters\
and mine too. \'a0Look at both, please--they\'92re by the same hand.\'94\
\
The lawyer done it, and says:\
\
\'93I believe it\'92s so--and if it ain\'92t so, there\'92s a heap stronger\
resemblance than I\'92d noticed before, anyway. \'a0Well, well, well! \'a0I\
thought we was right on the track of a solution, but it\'92s gone to grass,\
partly. \'a0But anyway, one thing is proved--_these_ two ain\'92t either of \'91em\
Wilkses\'94--and he wagged his head towards the king and the duke.\
\
Well, what do you think? \'a0That muleheaded old fool wouldn\'92t give in\
_then_! Indeed he wouldn\'92t. \'a0Said it warn\'92t no fair test. \'a0Said his\
brother William was the cussedest joker in the world, and hadn\'92t tried\
to write--_he_ see William was going to play one of his jokes the minute\
he put the pen to paper. \'a0And so he warmed up and went warbling and\
warbling right along till he was actuly beginning to believe what he was\
saying _himself_; but pretty soon the new gentleman broke in, and says:\
\
\'93I\'92ve thought of something. \'a0Is there anybody here that helped to lay\
out my br--helped to lay out the late Peter Wilks for burying?\'94\
\
\'93Yes,\'94 says somebody, \'93me and Ab Turner done it. \'a0We\'92re both here.\'94\
\
Then the old man turns towards the king, and says:\
\
\'93Perhaps this gentleman can tell me what was tattooed on his breast?\'94\
\
Blamed if the king didn\'92t have to brace up mighty quick, or he\'92d a\
squshed down like a bluff bank that the river has cut under, it took\
him so sudden; and, mind you, it was a thing that was calculated to make\
most _anybody_ sqush to get fetched such a solid one as that without any\
notice, because how was _he_ going to know what was tattooed on the man?\
\'a0He whitened a little; he couldn\'92t help it; and it was mighty still in\
there, and everybody bending a little forwards and gazing at him. \'a0Says\
I to myself, _now_ he\'92ll throw up the sponge--there ain\'92t no more use.\
\'a0Well, did he? \'a0A body can\'92t hardly believe it, but he didn\'92t. \'a0I reckon\
he thought he\'92d keep the thing up till he tired them people out, so\
they\'92d thin out, and him and the duke could break loose and get away.\
\'a0Anyway, he set there, and pretty soon he begun to smile, and says:\
\
\'93Mf! \'a0It\'92s a _very_ tough question, _ain\'92t_ it! \'a0_yes_, sir, I k\'92n\
tell you what\'92s tattooed on his breast. \'a0It\'92s jest a small, thin, blue\
arrow--that\'92s what it is; and if you don\'92t look clost, you can\'92t see it.\
\'a0_now_ what do you say--hey?\'94\
\
Well, I never see anything like that old blister for clean out-and-out\
cheek.\
\
The new old gentleman turns brisk towards Ab Turner and his pard, and\
his eye lights up like he judged he\'92d got the king _this_ time, and\
says:\
\
\'93There--you\'92ve heard what he said! \'a0Was there any such mark on Peter\
Wilks\'92 breast?\'94\
\
Both of them spoke up and says:\
\
\'93We didn\'92t see no such mark.\'94\
\
\'93Good!\'94 says the old gentleman.  \'93Now, what you _did_ see on his breast\
was a small dim P, and a B (which is an initial he dropped when he was\
young), and a W, with dashes between them, so: \'a0P--B--W\'94--and he marked\
them that way on a piece of paper.  \'93Come, ain\'92t that what you saw?\'94\
\
Both of them spoke up again, and says:\
\
\'93No, we _didn\'92t_. \'a0We never seen any marks at all.\'94\
\
Well, everybody _was_ in a state of mind now, and they sings out:\
\
\'93The whole _bilin_\'92 of \'91m \'91s frauds! \'a0Le\'92s duck \'91em! le\'92s drown \'91em!\
le\'92s ride \'91em on a rail!\'94 and everybody was whooping at once, and there\
was a rattling powwow. \'a0But the lawyer he jumps on the table and yells,\
and says:\
\
\'93Gentlemen--gentle_men!_ \'a0Hear me just a word--just a _single_ word--if you\
_please_! \'a0There\'92s one way yet--let\'92s go and dig up the corpse and look.\'94\
\
That took them.\
\
\'93Hooray!\'94 they all shouted, and was starting right off; but the lawyer\
and the doctor sung out:\
\
\'93Hold on, hold on! \'a0Collar all these four men and the boy, and fetch\
_them_ along, too!\'94\
\
\'93We\'92ll do it!\'94 they all shouted; \'93and if we don\'92t find them marks we\'92ll\
lynch the whole gang!\'94\
\
I _was_ scared, now, I tell you. \'a0But there warn\'92t no getting away, you\
know. They gripped us all, and marched us right along, straight for the\
graveyard, which was a mile and a half down the river, and the whole\
town at our heels, for we made noise enough, and it was only nine in the\
evening.\
\
As we went by our house I wished I hadn\'92t sent Mary Jane out of town;\
because now if I could tip her the wink she\'92d light out and save me, and\
blow on our dead-beats.\
\
Well, we swarmed along down the river road, just carrying on like\
wildcats; and to make it more scary the sky was darking up, and the\
lightning beginning to wink and flitter, and the wind to shiver amongst\
the leaves. This was the most awful trouble and most dangersome I ever\
was in; and I was kinder stunned; everything was going so different from\
what I had allowed for; stead of being fixed so I could take my own time\
if I wanted to, and see all the fun, and have Mary Jane at my back to\
save me and set me free when the close-fit come, here was nothing in the\
world betwixt me and sudden death but just them tattoo-marks. \'a0If they\
didn\'92t find them--\
\
I couldn\'92t bear to think about it; and yet, somehow, I couldn\'92t think\
about nothing else. \'a0It got darker and darker, and it was a beautiful\
time to give the crowd the slip; but that big husky had me by the\
wrist--Hines--and a body might as well try to give Goliar the slip. \'a0He\
dragged me right along, he was so excited, and I had to run to keep up.\
\
When they got there they swarmed into the graveyard and washed over it\
like an overflow. \'a0And when they got to the grave they found they had\
about a hundred times as many shovels as they wanted, but nobody hadn\'92t\
thought to fetch a lantern. \'a0But they sailed into digging anyway by the\
flicker of the lightning, and sent a man to the nearest house, a half a\
mile off, to borrow one.\
\
So they dug and dug like everything; and it got awful dark, and the rain\
started, and the wind swished and swushed along, and the lightning come\
brisker and brisker, and the thunder boomed; but them people never took\
no notice of it, they was so full of this business; and one minute\
you could see everything and every face in that big crowd, and the\
shovelfuls of dirt sailing up out of the grave, and the next second the\
dark wiped it all out, and you couldn\'92t see nothing at all.\
\
At last they got out the coffin and begun to unscrew the lid, and then\
such another crowding and shouldering and shoving as there was, to\
scrouge in and get a sight, you never see; and in the dark, that way, it\
was awful. \'a0Hines he hurt my wrist dreadful pulling and tugging so,\
and I reckon he clean forgot I was in the world, he was so excited and\
panting.\
\
All of a sudden the lightning let go a perfect sluice of white glare,\
and somebody sings out:\
\
\'93By the living jingo, here\'92s the bag of gold on his breast!\'94\
\
Hines let out a whoop, like everybody else, and dropped my wrist and\
give a big surge to bust his way in and get a look, and the way I lit\
out and shinned for the road in the dark there ain\'92t nobody can tell.\
\
I had the road all to myself, and I fairly flew--leastways, I had it all\
to myself except the solid dark, and the now-and-then glares, and the\
buzzing of the rain, and the thrashing of the wind, and the splitting of\
the thunder; and sure as you are born I did clip it along!\
\
When I struck the town I see there warn\'92t nobody out in the storm, so\
I never hunted for no back streets, but humped it straight through the\
main one; and when I begun to get towards our house I aimed my eye and\
set it. No light there; the house all dark--which made me feel sorry and\
disappointed, I didn\'92t know why. \'a0But at last, just as I was sailing by,\
_flash_ comes the light in Mary Jane\'92s window! and my heart swelled up\
sudden, like to bust; and the same second the house and all was behind\
me in the dark, and wasn\'92t ever going to be before me no more in this\
world. She _was_ the best girl I ever see, and had the most sand.\
\
The minute I was far enough above the town to see I could make the\
towhead, I begun to look sharp for a boat to borrow, and the first\
time the lightning showed me one that wasn\'92t chained I snatched it and\
shoved. It was a canoe, and warn\'92t fastened with nothing but a rope.\
\'a0The towhead was a rattling big distance off, away out there in the\
middle of the river, but I didn\'92t lose no time; and when I struck the\
raft at last I was so fagged I would a just laid down to blow and gasp\
if I could afforded it. \'a0But I didn\'92t. \'a0As I sprung aboard I sung out:\
\
\'93Out with you, Jim, and set her loose! \'a0Glory be to goodness, we\'92re shut\
of them!\'94\
\
Jim lit out, and was a-coming for me with both arms spread, he was so\
full of joy; but when I glimpsed him in the lightning my heart shot up\
in my mouth and I went overboard backwards; for I forgot he was old King\
Lear and a drownded A-rab all in one, and it most scared the livers and\
lights out of me. \'a0But Jim fished me out, and was going to hug me and\
bless me, and so on, he was so glad I was back and we was shut of the\
king and the duke, but I says:\
\
\'93Not now; have it for breakfast, have it for breakfast! \'a0Cut loose and\
let her slide!\'94\
\
So in two seconds away we went a-sliding down the river, and it _did_\
seem so good to be free again and all by ourselves on the big river, and\
nobody to bother us. \'a0I had to skip around a bit, and jump up and crack\
my heels a few times--I couldn\'92t help it; but about the third crack\
I noticed a sound that I knowed mighty well, and held my breath and\
listened and waited; and sure enough, when the next flash busted out\
over the water, here they come!--and just a-laying to their oars and\
making their skiff hum! \'a0It was the king and the duke.\
\
So I wilted right down on to the planks then, and give up; and it was\
all I could do to keep from crying.\
\
\
\
\
CHAPTER XXX.\
\
WHEN they got aboard the king went for me, and shook me by the collar,\
and says:\
\
\'93Tryin\'92 to give us the slip, was ye, you pup! \'a0Tired of our company,\
hey?\'94\
\
I says:\
\
\'93No, your majesty, we warn\'92t--_please_ don\'92t, your majesty!\'94\
\
\'93Quick, then, and tell us what _was_ your idea, or I\'92ll shake the\
insides out o\'92 you!\'94\
\
\'93Honest, I\'92ll tell you everything just as it happened, your majesty.\
\'a0The man that had a-holt of me was very good to me, and kept saying he\
had a boy about as big as me that died last year, and he was sorry\
to see a boy in such a dangerous fix; and when they was all took by\
surprise by finding the gold, and made a rush for the coffin, he lets go\
of me and whispers, \'91Heel it now, or they\'92ll hang ye, sure!\'92 and I lit\
out. \'a0It didn\'92t seem no good for _me_ to stay--I couldn\'92t do nothing,\
and I didn\'92t want to be hung if I could get away. \'a0So I never stopped\
running till I found the canoe; and when I got here I told Jim to hurry,\
or they\'92d catch me and hang me yet, and said I was afeard you and the\
duke wasn\'92t alive now, and I was awful sorry, and so was Jim, and was\
awful glad when we see you coming; you may ask Jim if I didn\'92t.\'94\
\
Jim said it was so; and the king told him to shut up, and said, \'93Oh,\
yes, it\'92s _mighty_ likely!\'94 and shook me up again, and said he reckoned\
he\'92d drownd me. \'a0But the duke says:\
\
\'93Leggo the boy, you old idiot! \'a0Would _you_ a done any different? \'a0Did\
you inquire around for _him_ when you got loose? \'a0I don\'92t remember it.\'94\
\
So the king let go of me, and begun to cuss that town and everybody in\
it. But the duke says:\
\
\'93You better a blame\'92 sight give _yourself_ a good cussing, for you\'92re\
the one that\'92s entitled to it most. \'a0You hain\'92t done a thing from the\
start that had any sense in it, except coming out so cool and cheeky\
with that imaginary blue-arrow mark. \'a0That _was_ bright--it was right\
down bully; and it was the thing that saved us. \'a0For if it hadn\'92t been\
for that they\'92d a jailed us till them Englishmen\'92s baggage come--and\
then--the penitentiary, you bet! But that trick took \'91em to the\
graveyard, and the gold done us a still bigger kindness; for if the\
excited fools hadn\'92t let go all holts and made that rush to get a\
look we\'92d a slept in our cravats to-night--cravats warranted to _wear_,\
too--longer than _we\'92d_ need \'91em.\'94\
\
They was still a minute--thinking; then the king says, kind of\
absent-minded like:\
\
\'93Mf! \'a0And we reckoned the _niggers_ stole it!\'94\
\
That made me squirm!\
\
\'93Yes,\'94 says the duke, kinder slow and deliberate and sarcastic, \'93_we_\
did.\'94\
\
After about a half a minute the king drawls out:\
\
\'93Leastways, I did.\'94\
\
The duke says, the same way:\
\
\'93On the contrary, I did.\'94\
\
The king kind of ruffles up, and says:\
\
\'93Looky here, Bilgewater, what\'92r you referrin\'92 to?\'94\
\
The duke says, pretty brisk:\
\
\'93When it comes to that, maybe you\'92ll let me ask, what was _you_\
referring to?\'94\
\
\'93Shucks!\'94 says the king, very sarcastic; \'93but I don\'92t know--maybe you was\
asleep, and didn\'92t know what you was about.\'94\
\
The duke bristles up now, and says:\
\
\'93Oh, let _up_ on this cussed nonsense; do you take me for a blame\'92 fool?\
Don\'92t you reckon I know who hid that money in that coffin?\'94\
\
\'93_Yes_, sir! \'a0I know you _do_ know, because you done it yourself!\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s a lie!\'94--and the duke went for him. \'a0The king sings out:\
\
\'93Take y\'92r hands off!--leggo my throat!--I take it all back!\'94\
\
The duke says:\
\
\'93Well, you just own up, first, that you _did_ hide that money there,\
intending to give me the slip one of these days, and come back and dig\
it up, and have it all to yourself.\'94\
\
\'93Wait jest a minute, duke--answer me this one question, honest and fair;\
if you didn\'92t put the money there, say it, and I\'92ll b\'92lieve you, and\
take back everything I said.\'94\
\
\'93You old scoundrel, I didn\'92t, and you know I didn\'92t. \'a0There, now!\'94\
\
\'93Well, then, I b\'92lieve you. \'a0But answer me only jest this one more--now\
_don\'92t_ git mad; didn\'92t you have it in your mind to hook the money and\
hide it?\'94\
\
The duke never said nothing for a little bit; then he says:\
\
\'93Well, I don\'92t care if I _did_, I didn\'92t _do_ it, anyway. \'a0But you not\
only had it in mind to do it, but you _done_ it.\'94\
\
\'93I wisht I never die if I done it, duke, and that\'92s honest. \'a0I won\'92t say\
I warn\'92t goin\'92 to do it, because I _was_; but you--I mean somebody--got in\
ahead o\'92 me.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s a lie! \'a0You done it, and you got to _say_ you done it, or--\'94\
\
The king began to gurgle, and then he gasps out:\
\
\'93\'91Nough!--I _own up!_\'94\
\
I was very glad to hear him say that; it made me feel much more easier\
than what I was feeling before. \'a0So the duke took his hands off and\
says:\
\
\'93If you ever deny it again I\'92ll drown you. \'a0It\'92s _well_ for you to set\
there and blubber like a baby--it\'92s fitten for you, after the way\
you\'92ve acted. I never see such an old ostrich for wanting to gobble\
everything--and I a-trusting you all the time, like you was my own\
father. \'a0You ought to been ashamed of yourself to stand by and hear it\
saddled on to a lot of poor niggers, and you never say a word for \'91em.\
\'a0It makes me feel ridiculous to think I was soft enough to _believe_\
that rubbage. \'a0Cuss you, I can see now why you was so anxious to make\
up the deffisit--you wanted to get what money I\'92d got out of the Nonesuch\
and one thing or another, and scoop it _all_!\'94\
\
The king says, timid, and still a-snuffling:\
\
\'93Why, duke, it was you that said make up the deffisit; it warn\'92t me.\'94\
\
\'93Dry up! \'a0I don\'92t want to hear no more out of you!\'94 says the duke.  \'93And\
_now_ you see what you GOT by it. \'a0They\'92ve got all their own money back,\
and all of _ourn_ but a shekel or two _besides_. \'a0G\'92long to bed, and\
don\'92t you deffersit _me_ no more deffersits, long \'91s _you_ live!\'94\
\
So the king sneaked into the wigwam and took to his bottle for comfort,\
and before long the duke tackled HIS bottle; and so in about a half an\
hour they was as thick as thieves again, and the tighter they got the\
lovinger they got, and went off a-snoring in each other\'92s arms. \'a0They\
both got powerful mellow, but I noticed the king didn\'92t get mellow\
enough to forget to remember to not deny about hiding the money-bag\
again. \'a0That made me feel easy and satisfied. \'a0Of course when they got\
to snoring we had a long gabble, and I told Jim everything.\
\
\
\
\
CHAPTER XXXI.\
\
WE dasn\'92t stop again at any town for days and days; kept right along\
down the river. \'a0We was down south in the warm weather now, and a mighty\
long ways from home. \'a0We begun to come to trees with Spanish moss on\
them, hanging down from the limbs like long, gray beards. \'a0It was the\
first I ever see it growing, and it made the woods look solemn and\
dismal. \'a0So now the frauds reckoned they was out of danger, and they\
begun to work the villages again.\
\
First they done a lecture on temperance; but they didn\'92t make enough\
for them both to get drunk on. \'a0Then in another village they started\
a dancing-school; but they didn\'92t know no more how to dance than a\
kangaroo does; so the first prance they made the general public jumped\
in and pranced them out of town. \'a0Another time they tried to go at\
yellocution; but they didn\'92t yellocute long till the audience got up and\
give them a solid good cussing, and made them skip out. \'a0They tackled\
missionarying, and mesmerizing, and doctoring, and telling fortunes, and\
a little of everything; but they couldn\'92t seem to have no luck. \'a0So at\
last they got just about dead broke, and laid around the raft as she\
floated along, thinking and thinking, and never saying nothing, by the\
half a day at a time, and dreadful blue and desperate.\
\
And at last they took a change and begun to lay their heads together in\
the wigwam and talk low and confidential two or three hours at a time.\
Jim and me got uneasy. \'a0We didn\'92t like the look of it. \'a0We judged they\
was studying up some kind of worse deviltry than ever. \'a0We turned it\
over and over, and at last we made up our minds they was going to break\
into somebody\'92s house or store, or was going into the counterfeit-money\
business, or something. So then we was pretty scared, and made up an\
agreement that we wouldn\'92t have nothing in the world to do with such\
actions, and if we ever got the least show we would give them the cold\
shake and clear out and leave them behind. Well, early one morning we\
hid the raft in a good, safe place about two mile below a little bit of\
a shabby village named Pikesville, and the king he went ashore and told\
us all to stay hid whilst he went up to town and smelt around to see\
if anybody had got any wind of the Royal Nonesuch there yet. (\'93House to\
rob, you _mean_,\'94 says I to myself; \'93and when you get through robbing it\
you\'92ll come back here and wonder what has become of me and Jim and the\
raft--and you\'92ll have to take it out in wondering.\'94) And he said if he\
warn\'92t back by midday the duke and me would know it was all right, and\
we was to come along.\
\
So we stayed where we was. \'a0The duke he fretted and sweated around, and\
was in a mighty sour way. \'a0He scolded us for everything, and we couldn\'92t\
seem to do nothing right; he found fault with every little thing.\
Something was a-brewing, sure. \'a0I was good and glad when midday come\
and no king; we could have a change, anyway--and maybe a chance for _the_\
change on top of it. \'a0So me and the duke went up to the village, and\
hunted around there for the king, and by and by we found him in the\
back room of a little low doggery, very tight, and a lot of loafers\
bullyragging him for sport, and he a-cussing and a-threatening with all\
his might, and so tight he couldn\'92t walk, and couldn\'92t do nothing to\
them. \'a0The duke he begun to abuse him for an old fool, and the king\
begun to sass back, and the minute they was fairly at it I lit out and\
shook the reefs out of my hind legs, and spun down the river road like\
a deer, for I see our chance; and I made up my mind that it would be a\
long day before they ever see me and Jim again. \'a0I got down there all\
out of breath but loaded up with joy, and sung out:\
\
\'93Set her loose, Jim! we\'92re all right now!\'94\
\
But there warn\'92t no answer, and nobody come out of the wigwam. \'a0Jim was\
gone! \'a0I set up a shout--and then another--and then another one; and run\
this way and that in the woods, whooping and screeching; but it warn\'92t\
no use--old Jim was gone. \'a0Then I set down and cried; I couldn\'92t help\
it. But I couldn\'92t set still long. \'a0Pretty soon I went out on the road,\
trying to think what I better do, and I run across a boy walking, and\
asked him if he\'92d seen a strange nigger dressed so and so, and he says:\
\
\'93Yes.\'94\
\
\'93Whereabouts?\'94 says I.\
\
\'93Down to Silas Phelps\'92 place, two mile below here. \'a0He\'92s a runaway\
nigger, and they\'92ve got him. \'a0Was you looking for him?\'94\
\
\'93You bet I ain\'92t! \'a0I run across him in the woods about an hour or two\
ago, and he said if I hollered he\'92d cut my livers out--and told me to lay\
down and stay where I was; and I done it. \'a0Been there ever since; afeard\
to come out.\'94\
\
\'93Well,\'94 he says, \'93you needn\'92t be afeard no more, becuz they\'92ve got him.\
He run off f\'92m down South, som\'92ers.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s a good job they got him.\'94\
\
\'93Well, I _reckon_! \'a0There\'92s two hunderd dollars reward on him. \'a0It\'92s\
like picking up money out\'92n the road.\'94\
\
\'93Yes, it is--and I could a had it if I\'92d been big enough; I see him\
_first_. Who nailed him?\'94\
\
\'93It was an old fellow--a stranger--and he sold out his chance in him for\
forty dollars, becuz he\'92s got to go up the river and can\'92t wait. \'a0Think\
o\'92 that, now! \'a0You bet _I\'92d_ wait, if it was seven year.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s me, every time,\'94 says I.  \'93But maybe his chance ain\'92t worth\
no more than that, if he\'92ll sell it so cheap. \'a0Maybe there\'92s something\
ain\'92t straight about it.\'94\
\
\'93But it _is_, though--straight as a string. \'a0I see the handbill myself.\
\'a0It tells all about him, to a dot--paints him like a picture, and tells\
the plantation he\'92s frum, below Newr_leans_. \'a0No-sirree-_bob_, they\
ain\'92t no trouble \'91bout _that_ speculation, you bet you. \'a0Say, gimme a\
chaw tobacker, won\'92t ye?\'94\
\
I didn\'92t have none, so he left. \'a0I went to the raft, and set down in the\
wigwam to think. \'a0But I couldn\'92t come to nothing. \'a0I thought till I wore\
my head sore, but I couldn\'92t see no way out of the trouble. \'a0After all\
this long journey, and after all we\'92d done for them scoundrels, here it\
was all come to nothing, everything all busted up and ruined, because\
they could have the heart to serve Jim such a trick as that, and make\
him a slave again all his life, and amongst strangers, too, for forty\
dirty dollars.\
\
Once I said to myself it would be a thousand times better for Jim to\
be a slave at home where his family was, as long as he\'92d _got_ to be a\
slave, and so I\'92d better write a letter to Tom Sawyer and tell him to\
tell Miss Watson where he was. \'a0But I soon give up that notion for two\
things: she\'92d be mad and disgusted at his rascality and ungratefulness\
for leaving her, and so she\'92d sell him straight down the river again;\
and if she didn\'92t, everybody naturally despises an ungrateful nigger,\
and they\'92d make Jim feel it all the time, and so he\'92d feel ornery and\
disgraced. And then think of _me_! \'a0It would get all around that Huck\
Finn helped a nigger to get his freedom; and if I was ever to see\
anybody from that town again I\'92d be ready to get down and lick his boots\
for shame. \'a0That\'92s just the way: \'a0a person does a low-down thing, and\
then he don\'92t want to take no consequences of it. Thinks as long as he\
can hide it, it ain\'92t no disgrace. \'a0That was my fix exactly. The more I\
studied about this the more my conscience went to grinding me, and the\
more wicked and low-down and ornery I got to feeling. And at last, when\
it hit me all of a sudden that here was the plain hand of Providence\
slapping me in the face and letting me know my wickedness was being\
watched all the time from up there in heaven, whilst I was stealing a\
poor old woman\'92s nigger that hadn\'92t ever done me no harm, and now was\
showing me there\'92s One that\'92s always on the lookout, and ain\'92t a-going\
to allow no such miserable doings to go only just so fur and no further,\
I most dropped in my tracks I was so scared. \'a0Well, I tried the best I\
could to kinder soften it up somehow for myself by saying I was brung\
up wicked, and so I warn\'92t so much to blame; but something inside of me\
kept saying, \'93There was the Sunday-school, you could a gone to it; and\
if you\'92d a done it they\'92d a learnt you there that people that acts as\
I\'92d been acting about that nigger goes to everlasting fire.\'94\
\
It made me shiver. \'a0And I about made up my mind to pray, and see if I\
couldn\'92t try to quit being the kind of a boy I was and be better. \'a0So\
I kneeled down. \'a0But the words wouldn\'92t come. \'a0Why wouldn\'92t they? \'a0It\
warn\'92t no use to try and hide it from Him. \'a0Nor from _me_, neither. \'a0I\
knowed very well why they wouldn\'92t come. \'a0It was because my heart warn\'92t\
right; it was because I warn\'92t square; it was because I was playing\
double. \'a0I was letting _on_ to give up sin, but away inside of me I was\
holding on to the biggest one of all. \'a0I was trying to make my mouth\
_say_ I would do the right thing and the clean thing, and go and write\
to that nigger\'92s owner and tell where he was; but deep down in me I\
knowed it was a lie, and He knowed it. \'a0You can\'92t pray a lie--I found\
that out.\
\
So I was full of trouble, full as I could be; and didn\'92t know what to\
do. At last I had an idea; and I says, I\'92ll go and write the letter--and\
then see if I can pray. \'a0Why, it was astonishing, the way I felt as\
light as a feather right straight off, and my troubles all gone. \'a0So I\
got a piece of paper and a pencil, all glad and excited, and set down\
and wrote:\
\
Miss Watson, your runaway nigger Jim is down here two mile below\
Pikesville, and Mr. Phelps has got him and he will give him up for the\
reward if you send.\
\
_Huck Finn._\
\
I felt good and all washed clean of sin for the first time I had ever\
felt so in my life, and I knowed I could pray now. \'a0But I didn\'92t do it\
straight off, but laid the paper down and set there thinking--thinking\
how good it was all this happened so, and how near I come to being lost\
and going to hell. \'a0And went on thinking. \'a0And got to thinking over our\
trip down the river; and I see Jim before me all the time: \'a0in the day\
and in the night-time, sometimes moonlight, sometimes storms, and we\
a-floating along, talking and singing and laughing. \'a0But somehow I\
couldn\'92t seem to strike no places to harden me against him, but only the\
other kind. \'a0I\'92d see him standing my watch on top of his\'92n, \'91stead of\
calling me, so I could go on sleeping; and see him how glad he was when\
I come back out of the fog; and when I come to him again in the swamp,\
up there where the feud was; and such-like times; and would always call\
me honey, and pet me and do everything he could think of for me, and how\
good he always was; and at last I struck the time I saved him by telling\
the men we had small-pox aboard, and he was so grateful, and said I was\
the best friend old Jim ever had in the world, and the _only_ one he\'92s\
got now; and then I happened to look around and see that paper.\
\
It was a close place. \'a0I took it up, and held it in my hand. \'a0I was\
a-trembling, because I\'92d got to decide, forever, betwixt two things, and\
I knowed it. \'a0I studied a minute, sort of holding my breath, and then\
says to myself:\
\
\'93All right, then, I\'92ll _go_ to hell\'94--and tore it up.\
\
It was awful thoughts and awful words, but they was said. \'a0And I let\
them stay said; and never thought no more about reforming. \'a0I shoved the\
whole thing out of my head, and said I would take up wickedness again,\
which was in my line, being brung up to it, and the other warn\'92t. \'a0And\
for a starter I would go to work and steal Jim out of slavery again;\
and if I could think up anything worse, I would do that, too; because as\
long as I was in, and in for good, I might as well go the whole hog.\
\
Then I set to thinking over how to get at it, and turned over some\
considerable many ways in my mind; and at last fixed up a plan that\
suited me. \'a0So then I took the bearings of a woody island that was down\
the river a piece, and as soon as it was fairly dark I crept out with my\
raft and went for it, and hid it there, and then turned in. \'a0I slept the\
night through, and got up before it was light, and had my breakfast,\
and put on my store clothes, and tied up some others and one thing or\
another in a bundle, and took the canoe and cleared for shore. \'a0I landed\
below where I judged was Phelps\'92s place, and hid my bundle in the woods,\
and then filled up the canoe with water, and loaded rocks into her and\
sunk her where I could find her again when I wanted her, about a quarter\
of a mile below a little steam sawmill that was on the bank.\
\
Then I struck up the road, and when I passed the mill I see a sign on\
it, \'93Phelps\'92s Sawmill,\'94 and when I come to the farm-houses, two or\
three hundred yards further along, I kept my eyes peeled, but didn\'92t\
see nobody around, though it was good daylight now. \'a0But I didn\'92t mind,\
because I didn\'92t want to see nobody just yet--I only wanted to get the\
lay of the land. According to my plan, I was going to turn up there from\
the village, not from below. \'a0So I just took a look, and shoved along,\
straight for town. Well, the very first man I see when I got there was\
the duke. \'a0He was sticking up a bill for the Royal Nonesuch--three-night\
performance--like that other time. \'a0They had the cheek, them frauds! \'a0I\
was right on him before I could shirk. \'a0He looked astonished, and says:\
\
\'93Hel-_lo_! \'a0Where\'92d _you_ come from?\'94 \'a0Then he says, kind of glad and\
eager, \'93Where\'92s the raft?--got her in a good place?\'94\
\
I says:\
\
\'93Why, that\'92s just what I was going to ask your grace.\'94\
\
Then he didn\'92t look so joyful, and says:\
\
\'93What was your idea for asking _me_?\'94 he says.\
\
\'93Well,\'94 I says, \'93when I see the king in that doggery yesterday I says\
to myself, we can\'92t get him home for hours, till he\'92s soberer; so I went\
a-loafing around town to put in the time and wait. \'a0A man up and offered\
me ten cents to help him pull a skiff over the river and back to fetch\
a sheep, and so I went along; but when we was dragging him to the boat,\
and the man left me a-holt of the rope and went behind him to shove him\
along, he was too strong for me and jerked loose and run, and we after\
him. \'a0We didn\'92t have no dog, and so we had to chase him all over the\
country till we tired him out. \'a0We never got him till dark; then we\
fetched him over, and I started down for the raft. \'a0When I got there and\
see it was gone, I says to myself, \'91They\'92ve got into trouble and had to\
leave; and they\'92ve took my nigger, which is the only nigger I\'92ve got in\
the world, and now I\'92m in a strange country, and ain\'92t got no property\
no more, nor nothing, and no way to make my living;\'92 so I set down and\
cried. \'a0I slept in the woods all night. \'a0But what _did_ become of the\
raft, then?--and Jim--poor Jim!\'94\
\
\'93Blamed if I know--that is, what\'92s become of the raft. \'a0That old fool had\
made a trade and got forty dollars, and when we found him in the doggery\
the loafers had matched half-dollars with him and got every cent but\
what he\'92d spent for whisky; and when I got him home late last night and\
found the raft gone, we said, \'91That little rascal has stole our raft and\
shook us, and run off down the river.\'92\'94\
\
\'93I wouldn\'92t shake my _nigger_, would I?--the only nigger I had in the\
world, and the only property.\'94\
\
\'93We never thought of that. \'a0Fact is, I reckon we\'92d come to consider him\
_our_ nigger; yes, we did consider him so--goodness knows we had trouble\
enough for him. \'a0So when we see the raft was gone and we flat broke,\
there warn\'92t anything for it but to try the Royal Nonesuch another\
shake. And I\'92ve pegged along ever since, dry as a powder-horn. \'a0Where\'92s\
that ten cents? Give it here.\'94\
\
I had considerable money, so I give him ten cents, but begged him to\
spend it for something to eat, and give me some, because it was all the\
money I had, and I hadn\'92t had nothing to eat since yesterday. \'a0He never\
said nothing. \'a0The next minute he whirls on me and says:\
\
\'93Do you reckon that nigger would blow on us? \'a0We\'92d skin him if he done\
that!\'94\
\
\'93How can he blow? \'a0Hain\'92t he run off?\'94\
\
\'93No! \'a0That old fool sold him, and never divided with me, and the money\'92s\
gone.\'94\
\
\'93_Sold_ him?\'94 \'a0I says, and begun to cry; \'93why, he was _my_ nigger, and\
that was my money. \'a0Where is he?--I want my nigger.\'94\
\
\'93Well, you can\'92t _get_ your nigger, that\'92s all--so dry up your\
blubbering. Looky here--do you think _you\'92d_ venture to blow on us?\
\'a0Blamed if I think I\'92d trust you. \'a0Why, if you _was_ to blow on us--\'94\
\
He stopped, but I never see the duke look so ugly out of his eyes\
before. I went on a-whimpering, and says:\
\
\'93I don\'92t want to blow on nobody; and I ain\'92t got no time to blow, nohow.\
I got to turn out and find my nigger.\'94\
\
He looked kinder bothered, and stood there with his bills fluttering on\
his arm, thinking, and wrinkling up his forehead. \'a0At last he says:\
\
\'93I\'92ll tell you something. \'a0We got to be here three days. \'a0If you\'92ll\
promise you won\'92t blow, and won\'92t let the nigger blow, I\'92ll tell you\
where to find him.\'94\
\
So I promised, and he says:\
\
\'93A farmer by the name of Silas Ph--\'94 and then he stopped. \'a0You see, he\
started to tell me the truth; but when he stopped that way, and begun to\
study and think again, I reckoned he was changing his mind. \'a0And so he\
was. He wouldn\'92t trust me; he wanted to make sure of having me out of\
the way the whole three days. \'a0So pretty soon he says:\
\
\'93The man that bought him is named Abram Foster--Abram G. Foster--and he\
lives forty mile back here in the country, on the road to Lafayette.\'94\
\
\'93All right,\'94 I says, \'93I can walk it in three days. \'a0And I\'92ll start this\
very afternoon.\'94\
\
\'93No you wont, you\'92ll start _now_; and don\'92t you lose any time about it,\
neither, nor do any gabbling by the way. \'a0Just keep a tight tongue in\
your head and move right along, and then you won\'92t get into trouble with\
_us_, d\'92ye hear?\'94\
\
That was the order I wanted, and that was the one I played for. \'a0I\
wanted to be left free to work my plans.\
\
\'93So clear out,\'94 he says; \'93and you can tell Mr. Foster whatever you want\
to. Maybe you can get him to believe that Jim _is_ your nigger--some\
idiots don\'92t require documents--leastways I\'92ve heard there\'92s such down\
South here. \'a0And when you tell him the handbill and the reward\'92s bogus,\
maybe he\'92ll believe you when you explain to him what the idea was for\
getting \'91em out. \'a0Go \'91long now, and tell him anything you want to; but\
mind you don\'92t work your jaw any _between_ here and there.\'94\
\
So I left, and struck for the back country. \'a0I didn\'92t look around, but I\
kinder felt like he was watching me. \'a0But I knowed I could tire him out\
at that. \'a0I went straight out in the country as much as a mile before\
I stopped; then I doubled back through the woods towards Phelps\'92. \'a0I\
reckoned I better start in on my plan straight off without fooling\
around, because I wanted to stop Jim\'92s mouth till these fellows could\
get away. \'a0I didn\'92t want no trouble with their kind. \'a0I\'92d seen all I\
wanted to of them, and wanted to get entirely shut of them.\
\
\
\
\
CHAPTER XXXII.\
\
WHEN I got there it was all still and Sunday-like, and hot and sunshiny;\
the hands was gone to the fields; and there was them kind of faint\
dronings of bugs and flies in the air that makes it seem so lonesome and\
like everybody\'92s dead and gone; and if a breeze fans along and quivers\
the leaves it makes you feel mournful, because you feel like it\'92s\
spirits whispering--spirits that\'92s been dead ever so many years--and you\
always think they\'92re talking about _you_. \'a0As a general thing it makes a\
body wish _he_ was dead, too, and done with it all.\
\
Phelps\'92 was one of these little one-horse cotton plantations, and they\
all look alike. \'a0A rail fence round a two-acre yard; a stile made out\
of logs sawed off and up-ended in steps, like barrels of a different\
length, to climb over the fence with, and for the women to stand on when\
they are going to jump on to a horse; some sickly grass-patches in the\
big yard, but mostly it was bare and smooth, like an old hat with the\
nap rubbed off; big double log-house for the white folks--hewed logs,\
with the chinks stopped up with mud or mortar, and these mud-stripes\
been whitewashed some time or another; round-log kitchen, with a big\
broad, open but roofed passage joining it to the house; log smoke-house\
back of the kitchen; three little log nigger-cabins in a row t\'92other\
side the smoke-house; one little hut all by itself away down against\
the back fence, and some outbuildings down a piece the other side;\
ash-hopper and big kettle to bile soap in by the little hut; bench by\
the kitchen door, with bucket of water and a gourd; hound asleep there\
in the sun; more hounds asleep round about; about three shade trees away\
off in a corner; some currant bushes and gooseberry bushes in one place\
by the fence; outside of the fence a garden and a watermelon patch; then\
the cotton fields begins, and after the fields the woods.\
\
I went around and clumb over the back stile by the ash-hopper, and\
started for the kitchen. \'a0When I got a little ways I heard the dim hum\
of a spinning-wheel wailing along up and sinking along down again;\
and then I knowed for certain I wished I was dead--for that _is_ the\
lonesomest sound in the whole world.\
\
I went right along, not fixing up any particular plan, but just trusting\
to Providence to put the right words in my mouth when the time come; for\
I\'92d noticed that Providence always did put the right words in my mouth\
if I left it alone.\
\
When I got half-way, first one hound and then another got up and went\
for me, and of course I stopped and faced them, and kept still. \'a0And\
such another powwow as they made! \'a0In a quarter of a minute I was a kind\
of a hub of a wheel, as you may say--spokes made out of dogs--circle of\
fifteen of them packed together around me, with their necks and noses\
stretched up towards me, a-barking and howling; and more a-coming; you\
could see them sailing over fences and around corners from everywheres.\
\
A nigger woman come tearing out of the kitchen with a rolling-pin in her\
hand, singing out, \'93Begone _you_ Tige! you Spot! begone sah!\'94 and she\
fetched first one and then another of them a clip and sent them howling,\
and then the rest followed; and the next second half of them come back,\
wagging their tails around me, and making friends with me. \'a0There ain\'92t\
no harm in a hound, nohow.\
\
And behind the woman comes a little nigger girl and two little nigger\
boys without anything on but tow-linen shirts, and they hung on to their\
mother\'92s gown, and peeped out from behind her at me, bashful, the way\
they always do. \'a0And here comes the white woman running from the house,\
about forty-five or fifty year old, bareheaded, and her spinning-stick\
in her hand; and behind her comes her little white children, acting the\
same way the little niggers was doing. \'a0She was smiling all over so she\
could hardly stand--and says:\
\
\'93It\'92s _you_, at last!--_ain\'92t_ it?\'94\
\
I out with a \'93Yes\'92m\'94 before I thought.\
\
She grabbed me and hugged me tight; and then gripped me by both hands\
and shook and shook; and the tears come in her eyes, and run down over;\
and she couldn\'92t seem to hug and shake enough, and kept saying, \'93You\
don\'92t look as much like your mother as I reckoned you would; but law\
sakes, I don\'92t care for that, I\'92m so glad to see you! \'a0Dear, dear, it\
does seem like I could eat you up! \'a0Children, it\'92s your cousin Tom!--tell\
him howdy.\'94\
\
But they ducked their heads, and put their fingers in their mouths, and\
hid behind her. \'a0So she run on:\
\
\'93Lize, hurry up and get him a hot breakfast right away--or did you get\
your breakfast on the boat?\'94\
\
I said I had got it on the boat. \'a0So then she started for the house,\
leading me by the hand, and the children tagging after. \'a0When we got\
there she set me down in a split-bottomed chair, and set herself down on\
a little low stool in front of me, holding both of my hands, and says:\
\
\'93Now I can have a _good_ look at you; and, laws-a-me, I\'92ve been hungry\
for it a many and a many a time, all these long years, and it\'92s come\
at last! We been expecting you a couple of days and more. \'a0What kep\'92\
you?--boat get aground?\'94\
\
\'93Yes\'92m--she--\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t say yes\'92m--say Aunt Sally. \'a0Where\'92d she get aground?\'94\
\
I didn\'92t rightly know what to say, because I didn\'92t know whether the\
boat would be coming up the river or down. \'a0But I go a good deal on\
instinct; and my instinct said she would be coming up--from down towards\
Orleans. That didn\'92t help me much, though; for I didn\'92t know the names\
of bars down that way. \'a0I see I\'92d got to invent a bar, or forget the\
name of the one we got aground on--or--Now I struck an idea, and fetched\
it out:\
\
\'93It warn\'92t the grounding--that didn\'92t keep us back but a little. \'a0We\
blowed out a cylinder-head.\'94\
\
\'93Good gracious! anybody hurt?\'94\
\
\'93No\'92m. \'a0Killed a nigger.\'94\
\
\'93Well, it\'92s lucky; because sometimes people do get hurt. \'a0Two years ago\
last Christmas your uncle Silas was coming up from Newrleans on the old\
Lally Rook, and she blowed out a cylinder-head and crippled a man. \'a0And\
I think he died afterwards. \'a0He was a Baptist. \'a0Your uncle Silas knowed\
a family in Baton Rouge that knowed his people very well. \'a0Yes, I\
remember now, he _did_ die. \'a0Mortification set in, and they had to\
amputate him. But it didn\'92t save him. \'a0Yes, it was mortification--that\
was it. \'a0He turned blue all over, and died in the hope of a glorious\
resurrection. They say he was a sight to look at. \'a0Your uncle\'92s been up\
to the town every day to fetch you. And he\'92s gone again, not more\'92n an\
hour ago; he\'92ll be back any minute now. You must a met him on the road,\
didn\'92t you?--oldish man, with a--\'94\
\
\'93No, I didn\'92t see nobody, Aunt Sally. \'a0The boat landed just at daylight,\
and I left my baggage on the wharf-boat and went looking around the town\
and out a piece in the country, to put in the time and not get here too\
soon; and so I come down the back way.\'94\
\
\'93Who\'92d you give the baggage to?\'94\
\
\'93Nobody.\'94\
\
\'93Why, child, it \'91ll be stole!\'94\
\
\'93Not where I hid it I reckon it won\'92t,\'94 I says.\
\
\'93How\'92d you get your breakfast so early on the boat?\'94\
\
It was kinder thin ice, but I says:\
\
\'93The captain see me standing around, and told me I better have something\
to eat before I went ashore; so he took me in the texas to the officers\'92\
lunch, and give me all I wanted.\'94\
\
I was getting so uneasy I couldn\'92t listen good. \'a0I had my mind on the\
children all the time; I wanted to get them out to one side and pump\
them a little, and find out who I was. \'a0But I couldn\'92t get no show, Mrs.\
Phelps kept it up and run on so. \'a0Pretty soon she made the cold chills\
streak all down my back, because she says:\
\
\'93But here we\'92re a-running on this way, and you hain\'92t told me a word\
about Sis, nor any of them. \'a0Now I\'92ll rest my works a little, and you\
start up yourn; just tell me _everything_--tell me all about \'91m all every\
one of \'91m; and how they are, and what they\'92re doing, and what they told\
you to tell me; and every last thing you can think of.\'94\
\
Well, I see I was up a stump--and up it good. \'a0Providence had stood by\
me this fur all right, but I was hard and tight aground now. \'a0I see it\
warn\'92t a bit of use to try to go ahead--I\'92d got to throw up my hand. \'a0So\
I says to myself, here\'92s another place where I got to resk the truth.\
\'a0I opened my mouth to begin; but she grabbed me and hustled me in behind\
the bed, and says:\
\
\'93Here he comes! \'a0Stick your head down lower--there, that\'92ll do; you can\'92t\
be seen now. \'a0Don\'92t you let on you\'92re here. \'a0I\'92ll play a joke on him.\
Children, don\'92t you say a word.\'94\
\
I see I was in a fix now. \'a0But it warn\'92t no use to worry; there warn\'92t\
nothing to do but just hold still, and try and be ready to stand from\
under when the lightning struck.\
\
I had just one little glimpse of the old gentleman when he come in; then\
the bed hid him. \'a0Mrs. Phelps she jumps for him, and says:\
\
\'93Has he come?\'94\
\
\'93No,\'94 says her husband.\
\
\'93Good-_ness_ gracious!\'94 she says, \'93what in the warld can have become of\
him?\'94\
\
\'93I can\'92t imagine,\'94 says the old gentleman; \'93and I must say it makes me\
dreadful uneasy.\'94\
\
\'93Uneasy!\'94 she says; \'93I\'92m ready to go distracted! \'a0He _must_ a come; and\
you\'92ve missed him along the road. \'a0I _know_ it\'92s so--something tells me\
so.\'94\
\
\'93Why, Sally, I _couldn\'92t_ miss him along the road--_you_ know that.\'94\
\
\'93But oh, dear, dear, what _will_ Sis say! \'a0He must a come! \'a0You must a\
missed him. \'a0He--\'94\
\
\'93Oh, don\'92t distress me any more\'92n I\'92m already distressed. \'a0I don\'92t know\
what in the world to make of it. \'a0I\'92m at my wit\'92s end, and I don\'92t mind\
acknowledging \'91t I\'92m right down scared. \'a0But there\'92s no hope that he\'92s\
come; for he _couldn\'92t_ come and me miss him. \'a0Sally, it\'92s terrible--just\
terrible--something\'92s happened to the boat, sure!\'94\
\
\'93Why, Silas! \'a0Look yonder!--up the road!--ain\'92t that somebody coming?\'94\
\
He sprung to the window at the head of the bed, and that give Mrs.\
Phelps the chance she wanted. \'a0She stooped down quick at the foot of the\
bed and give me a pull, and out I come; and when he turned back from the\
window there she stood, a-beaming and a-smiling like a house afire, and\
I standing pretty meek and sweaty alongside. \'a0The old gentleman stared,\
and says:\
\
\'93Why, who\'92s that?\'94\
\
\'93Who do you reckon \'91t is?\'94\
\
\'93I hain\'92t no idea. \'a0Who _is_ it?\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s _Tom Sawyer!_\'94\
\
By jings, I most slumped through the floor! \'a0But there warn\'92t no time to\
swap knives; the old man grabbed me by the hand and shook, and kept on\
shaking; and all the time how the woman did dance around and laugh and\
cry; and then how they both did fire off questions about Sid, and Mary,\
and the rest of the tribe.\
\
But if they was joyful, it warn\'92t nothing to what I was; for it was like\
being born again, I was so glad to find out who I was. \'a0Well, they froze\
to me for two hours; and at last, when my chin was so tired it couldn\'92t\
hardly go any more, I had told them more about my family--I mean the\
Sawyer family--than ever happened to any six Sawyer families. \'a0And I\
explained all about how we blowed out a cylinder-head at the mouth of\
White River, and it took us three days to fix it. \'a0Which was all right,\
and worked first-rate; because _they_ didn\'92t know but what it would take\
three days to fix it. \'a0If I\'92d a called it a bolthead it would a done\
just as well.\
\
Now I was feeling pretty comfortable all down one side, and pretty\
uncomfortable all up the other. \'a0Being Tom Sawyer was easy and\
comfortable, and it stayed easy and comfortable till by and by I hear a\
steamboat coughing along down the river. \'a0Then I says to myself, s\'92pose\
Tom Sawyer comes down on that boat? \'a0And s\'92pose he steps in here any\
minute, and sings out my name before I can throw him a wink to keep\
quiet?\
\
Well, I couldn\'92t _have_ it that way; it wouldn\'92t do at all. \'a0I must go\
up the road and waylay him. \'a0So I told the folks I reckoned I would go\
up to the town and fetch down my baggage. \'a0The old gentleman was for\
going along with me, but I said no, I could drive the horse myself, and\
I druther he wouldn\'92t take no trouble about me.\
\
\
\
\
CHAPTER XXXIII.\
\
SO I started for town in the wagon, and when I was half-way I see a\
wagon coming, and sure enough it was Tom Sawyer, and I stopped and\
waited till he come along. \'a0I says \'93Hold on!\'94 and it stopped alongside,\
and his mouth opened up like a trunk, and stayed so; and he swallowed\
two or three times like a person that\'92s got a dry throat, and then says:\
\
\'93I hain\'92t ever done you no harm. \'a0You know that. \'a0So, then, what you\
want to come back and ha\'92nt _me_ for?\'94\
\
I says:\
\
\'93I hain\'92t come back--I hain\'92t been _gone_.\'94\
\
When he heard my voice it righted him up some, but he warn\'92t quite\
satisfied yet. \'a0He says:\
\
\'93Don\'92t you play nothing on me, because I wouldn\'92t on you. \'a0Honest injun\
now, you ain\'92t a ghost?\'94\
\
\'93Honest injun, I ain\'92t,\'94 I says.\
\
\'93Well--I--I--well, that ought to settle it, of course; but I can\'92t somehow\
seem to understand it no way. \'a0Looky here, warn\'92t you ever murdered _at\
all?_\'94\
\
\'93No. \'a0I warn\'92t ever murdered at all--I played it on them. \'a0You come in\
here and feel of me if you don\'92t believe me.\'94\
\
So he done it; and it satisfied him; and he was that glad to see me\
again he didn\'92t know what to do. \'a0And he wanted to know all about it\
right off, because it was a grand adventure, and mysterious, and so it\
hit him where he lived. \'a0But I said, leave it alone till by and by; and\
told his driver to wait, and we drove off a little piece, and I told\
him the kind of a fix I was in, and what did he reckon we better do? \'a0He\
said, let him alone a minute, and don\'92t disturb him. \'a0So he thought and\
thought, and pretty soon he says:\
\
\'93It\'92s all right; I\'92ve got it. \'a0Take my trunk in your wagon, and let on\
it\'92s your\'92n; and you turn back and fool along slow, so as to get to the\
house about the time you ought to; and I\'92ll go towards town a piece, and\
take a fresh start, and get there a quarter or a half an hour after you;\
and you needn\'92t let on to know me at first.\'94\
\
I says:\
\
\'93All right; but wait a minute. \'a0There\'92s one more thing--a thing that\
_nobody_ don\'92t know but me. \'a0And that is, there\'92s a nigger here that\
I\'92m a-trying to steal out of slavery, and his name is _Jim_--old Miss\
Watson\'92s Jim.\'94\
\
He says:\
\
\'93What! \'a0Why, Jim is--\'94\
\
He stopped and went to studying. \'a0I says:\
\
\'93I know what you\'92ll say. \'a0You\'92ll say it\'92s dirty, low-down business; but\
what if it is? \'a0I\'92m low down; and I\'92m a-going to steal him, and I want\
you keep mum and not let on. \'a0Will you?\'94\
\
His eye lit up, and he says:\
\
\'93I\'92ll _help_ you steal him!\'94\
\
Well, I let go all holts then, like I was shot. \'a0It was the most\
astonishing speech I ever heard--and I\'92m bound to say Tom Sawyer fell\
considerable in my estimation. \'a0Only I couldn\'92t believe it. \'a0Tom Sawyer\
a _nigger-stealer!_\
\
\'93Oh, shucks!\'94 \'a0I says; \'93you\'92re joking.\'94\
\
\'93I ain\'92t joking, either.\'94\
\
\'93Well, then,\'94 I says, \'93joking or no joking, if you hear anything said\
about a runaway nigger, don\'92t forget to remember that _you_ don\'92t know\
nothing about him, and I don\'92t know nothing about him.\'94\
\
Then we took the trunk and put it in my wagon, and he drove off his\
way and I drove mine. \'a0But of course I forgot all about driving slow on\
accounts of being glad and full of thinking; so I got home a heap too\
quick for that length of a trip. \'a0The old gentleman was at the door, and\
he says:\
\
\'93Why, this is wonderful! \'a0Whoever would a thought it was in that mare\
to do it? \'a0I wish we\'92d a timed her. \'a0And she hain\'92t sweated a hair--not\
a hair. It\'92s wonderful. \'a0Why, I wouldn\'92t take a hundred dollars for that\
horse now--I wouldn\'92t, honest; and yet I\'92d a sold her for fifteen before,\
and thought \'91twas all she was worth.\'94\
\
That\'92s all he said. \'a0He was the innocentest, best old soul I ever see.\
But it warn\'92t surprising; because he warn\'92t only just a farmer, he was\
a preacher, too, and had a little one-horse log church down back of the\
plantation, which he built it himself at his own expense, for a church\
and schoolhouse, and never charged nothing for his preaching, and it was\
worth it, too. \'a0There was plenty other farmer-preachers like that, and\
done the same way, down South.\
\
In about half an hour Tom\'92s wagon drove up to the front stile, and Aunt\
Sally she see it through the window, because it was only about fifty\
yards, and says:\
\
\'93Why, there\'92s somebody come! \'a0I wonder who \'91tis? \'a0Why, I do believe it\'92s\
a stranger. \'a0Jimmy\'94 (that\'92s one of the children) \'93run and tell Lize to\
put on another plate for dinner.\'94\
\
Everybody made a rush for the front door, because, of course, a stranger\
don\'92t come _every_ year, and so he lays over the yaller-fever, for\
interest, when he does come. \'a0Tom was over the stile and starting for\
the house; the wagon was spinning up the road for the village, and we\
was all bunched in the front door. \'a0Tom had his store clothes on, and an\
audience--and that was always nuts for Tom Sawyer. \'a0In them circumstances\
it warn\'92t no trouble to him to throw in an amount of style that was\
suitable. \'a0He warn\'92t a boy to meeky along up that yard like a sheep; no,\
he come ca\'92m and important, like the ram. \'a0When he got a-front of us he\
lifts his hat ever so gracious and dainty, like it was the lid of a box\
that had butterflies asleep in it and he didn\'92t want to disturb them,\
and says:\
\
\'93Mr. Archibald Nichols, I presume?\'94\
\
\'93No, my boy,\'94 says the old gentleman, \'93I\'92m sorry to say \'91t your driver\
has deceived you; Nichols\'92s place is down a matter of three mile more.\
Come in, come in.\'94\
\
Tom he took a look back over his shoulder, and says, \'93Too late--he\'92s out\
of sight.\'94\
\
\'93Yes, he\'92s gone, my son, and you must come in and eat your dinner with\
us; and then we\'92ll hitch up and take you down to Nichols\'92s.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, I _can\'92t_ make you so much trouble; I couldn\'92t think of it. \'a0I\'92ll\
walk--I don\'92t mind the distance.\'94\
\
\'93But we won\'92t _let_ you walk--it wouldn\'92t be Southern hospitality to do\
it. Come right in.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, _do_,\'94 says Aunt Sally; \'93it ain\'92t a bit of trouble to us, not a\
bit in the world. \'a0You must stay. \'a0It\'92s a long, dusty three mile, and\
we can\'92t let you walk. \'a0And, besides, I\'92ve already told \'91em to put on\
another plate when I see you coming; so you mustn\'92t disappoint us. \'a0Come\
right in and make yourself at home.\'94\
\
So Tom he thanked them very hearty and handsome, and let himself be\
persuaded, and come in; and when he was in he said he was a stranger\
from Hicksville, Ohio, and his name was William Thompson--and he made\
another bow.\
\
Well, he run on, and on, and on, making up stuff about Hicksville and\
everybody in it he could invent, and I getting a little nervious, and\
wondering how this was going to help me out of my scrape; and at last,\
still talking along, he reached over and kissed Aunt Sally right on the\
mouth, and then settled back again in his chair comfortable, and was\
going on talking; but she jumped up and wiped it off with the back of\
her hand, and says:\
\
\'93You owdacious puppy!\'94\
\
He looked kind of hurt, and says:\
\
\'93I\'92m surprised at you, m\'92am.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re s\'92rp--Why, what do you reckon I am? \'a0I\'92ve a good notion to take\
and--Say, what do you mean by kissing me?\'94\
\
He looked kind of humble, and says:\
\
\'93I didn\'92t mean nothing, m\'92am. \'a0I didn\'92t mean no harm. \'a0I--I--thought you\'92d\
like it.\'94\
\
\'93Why, you born fool!\'94 \'a0She took up the spinning stick, and it looked\
like it was all she could do to keep from giving him a crack with it.\
 \'93What made you think I\'92d like it?\'94\
\
\'93Well, I don\'92t know. \'a0Only, they--they--told me you would.\'94\
\
\'93_They_ told you I would. \'a0Whoever told you\'92s _another_ lunatic. \'a0I\
never heard the beat of it. \'a0Who\'92s _they_?\'94\
\
\'93Why, everybody. \'a0They all said so, m\'92am.\'94\
\
It was all she could do to hold in; and her eyes snapped, and her\
fingers worked like she wanted to scratch him; and she says:\
\
\'93Who\'92s \'91everybody\'92? \'a0Out with their names, or ther\'92ll be an idiot\
short.\'94\
\
He got up and looked distressed, and fumbled his hat, and says:\
\
\'93I\'92m sorry, and I warn\'92t expecting it. \'a0They told me to. \'a0They all told\
me to. \'a0They all said, kiss her; and said she\'92d like it. \'a0They all said\
it--every one of them. \'a0But I\'92m sorry, m\'92am, and I won\'92t do it no more--I\
won\'92t, honest.\'94\
\
\'93You won\'92t, won\'92t you? \'a0Well, I sh\'92d _reckon_ you won\'92t!\'94\
\
\'93No\'92m, I\'92m honest about it; I won\'92t ever do it again--till you ask me.\'94\
\
\'93Till I _ask_ you! \'a0Well, I never see the beat of it in my born days!\
\'a0I lay you\'92ll be the Methusalem-numskull of creation before ever I ask\
you--or the likes of you.\'94\
\
\'93Well,\'94 he says, \'93it does surprise me so. \'a0I can\'92t make it out, somehow.\
They said you would, and I thought you would. \'a0But--\'94 He stopped and\
looked around slow, like he wished he could run across a friendly eye\
somewheres, and fetched up on the old gentleman\'92s, and says, \'93Didn\'92t\
_you_ think she\'92d like me to kiss her, sir?\'94\
\
\'93Why, no; I--I--well, no, I b\'92lieve I didn\'92t.\'94\
\
Then he looks on around the same way to me, and says:\
\
\'93Tom, didn\'92t _you_ think Aunt Sally \'91d open out her arms and say, \'91Sid\
Sawyer--\'92\'94\
\
\'93My land!\'94 she says, breaking in and jumping for him, \'93you impudent\
young rascal, to fool a body so--\'94 and was going to hug him, but he\
fended her off, and says:\
\
\'93No, not till you\'92ve asked me first.\'94\
\
So she didn\'92t lose no time, but asked him; and hugged him and kissed\
him over and over again, and then turned him over to the old man, and he\
took what was left. \'a0And after they got a little quiet again she says:\
\
\'93Why, dear me, I never see such a surprise. \'a0We warn\'92t looking for _you_\
at all, but only Tom. \'a0Sis never wrote to me about anybody coming but\
him.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s because it warn\'92t _intended_ for any of us to come but Tom,\'94 he\
says; \'93but I begged and begged, and at the last minute she let me\
come, too; so, coming down the river, me and Tom thought it would be a\
first-rate surprise for him to come here to the house first, and for me\
to by and by tag along and drop in, and let on to be a stranger. \'a0But it\
was a mistake, Aunt Sally. \'a0This ain\'92t no healthy place for a stranger\
to come.\'94\
\
\'93No--not impudent whelps, Sid. \'a0You ought to had your jaws boxed; I\
hain\'92t been so put out since I don\'92t know when. \'a0But I don\'92t care, I\
don\'92t mind the terms--I\'92d be willing to stand a thousand such jokes to\
have you here. Well, to think of that performance! \'a0I don\'92t deny it, I\
was most putrified with astonishment when you give me that smack.\'94\
\
We had dinner out in that broad open passage betwixt the house and\
the kitchen; and there was things enough on that table for seven\
families--and all hot, too; none of your flabby, tough meat that\'92s laid\
in a cupboard in a damp cellar all night and tastes like a hunk of\
old cold cannibal in the morning. \'a0Uncle Silas he asked a pretty long\
blessing over it, but it was worth it; and it didn\'92t cool it a bit,\
neither, the way I\'92ve seen them kind of interruptions do lots of times.\
\'a0There was a considerable good deal of talk all the afternoon, and me\
and Tom was on the lookout all the time; but it warn\'92t no use, they\
didn\'92t happen to say nothing about any runaway nigger, and we was afraid\
to try to work up to it. \'a0But at supper, at night, one of the little\
boys says:\
\
\'93Pa, mayn\'92t Tom and Sid and me go to the show?\'94\
\
\'93No,\'94 says the old man, \'93I reckon there ain\'92t going to be any; and you\
couldn\'92t go if there was; because the runaway nigger told Burton and\
me all about that scandalous show, and Burton said he would tell the\
people; so I reckon they\'92ve drove the owdacious loafers out of town\
before this time.\'94\
\
So there it was!--but I couldn\'92t help it. \'a0Tom and me was to sleep in the\
same room and bed; so, being tired, we bid good-night and went up to\
bed right after supper, and clumb out of the window and down the\
lightning-rod, and shoved for the town; for I didn\'92t believe anybody was\
going to give the king and the duke a hint, and so if I didn\'92t hurry up\
and give them one they\'92d get into trouble sure.\
\
On the road Tom he told me all about how it was reckoned I was murdered,\
and how pap disappeared pretty soon, and didn\'92t come back no more, and\
what a stir there was when Jim run away; and I told Tom all about our\
Royal Nonesuch rapscallions, and as much of the raft voyage as I had\
time to; and as we struck into the town and up through the the middle of\
it--it was as much as half-after eight, then--here comes a raging rush of\
people with torches, and an awful whooping and yelling, and banging tin\
pans and blowing horns; and we jumped to one side to let them go by;\
and as they went by I see they had the king and the duke astraddle of a\
rail--that is, I knowed it _was_ the king and the duke, though they was\
all over tar and feathers, and didn\'92t look like nothing in the\
world that was human--just looked like a couple of monstrous big\
soldier-plumes. \'a0Well, it made me sick to see it; and I was sorry for\
them poor pitiful rascals, it seemed like I couldn\'92t ever feel any\
hardness against them any more in the world. \'a0It was a dreadful thing to\
see. \'a0Human beings _can_ be awful cruel to one another.\
\
We see we was too late--couldn\'92t do no good. \'a0We asked some stragglers\
about it, and they said everybody went to the show looking very\
innocent; and laid low and kept dark till the poor old king was in the\
middle of his cavortings on the stage; then somebody give a signal, and\
the house rose up and went for them.\
\
So we poked along back home, and I warn\'92t feeling so brash as I was\
before, but kind of ornery, and humble, and to blame, somehow--though\
I hadn\'92t done nothing. \'a0But that\'92s always the way; it don\'92t make no\
difference whether you do right or wrong, a person\'92s conscience ain\'92t\
got no sense, and just goes for him anyway. \'a0If I had a yaller dog that\
didn\'92t know no more than a person\'92s conscience does I would pison him.\
It takes up more room than all the rest of a person\'92s insides, and yet\
ain\'92t no good, nohow. \'a0Tom Sawyer he says the same.\
\
\
\
\
CHAPTER XXXIV.\
\
WE stopped talking, and got to thinking. \'a0By and by Tom says:\
\
\'93Looky here, Huck, what fools we are to not think of it before! \'a0I bet I\
know where Jim is.\'94\
\
\'93No! \'a0Where?\'94\
\
\'93In that hut down by the ash-hopper. \'a0Why, looky here. \'a0When we was at\
dinner, didn\'92t you see a nigger man go in there with some vittles?\'94\
\
\'93Yes.\'94\
\
\'93What did you think the vittles was for?\'94\
\
\'93For a dog.\'94\
\
\'93So \'91d I. Well, it wasn\'92t for a dog.\'94\
\
\'93Why?\'94\
\
\'93Because part of it was watermelon.\'94\
\
\'93So it was--I noticed it. \'a0Well, it does beat all that I never thought\
about a dog not eating watermelon. \'a0It shows how a body can see and\
don\'92t see at the same time.\'94\
\
\'93Well, the nigger unlocked the padlock when he went in, and he locked it\
again when he came out. \'a0He fetched uncle a key about the time we got up\
from table--same key, I bet. \'a0Watermelon shows man, lock shows prisoner;\
and it ain\'92t likely there\'92s two prisoners on such a little plantation,\
and where the people\'92s all so kind and good. \'a0Jim\'92s the prisoner. \'a0All\
right--I\'92m glad we found it out detective fashion; I wouldn\'92t give shucks\
for any other way. \'a0Now you work your mind, and study out a plan to\
steal Jim, and I will study out one, too; and we\'92ll take the one we like\
the best.\'94\
\
What a head for just a boy to have! \'a0If I had Tom Sawyer\'92s head I\
wouldn\'92t trade it off to be a duke, nor mate of a steamboat, nor clown\
in a circus, nor nothing I can think of. \'a0I went to thinking out a plan,\
but only just to be doing something; I knowed very well where the right\
plan was going to come from. \'a0Pretty soon Tom says:\
\
\'93Ready?\'94\
\
\'93Yes,\'94 I says.\
\
\'93All right--bring it out.\'94\
\
\'93My plan is this,\'94 I says.  \'93We can easy find out if it\'92s Jim in there.\
Then get up my canoe to-morrow night, and fetch my raft over from the\
island. \'a0Then the first dark night that comes steal the key out of the\
old man\'92s britches after he goes to bed, and shove off down the river\
on the raft with Jim, hiding daytimes and running nights, the way me and\
Jim used to do before. \'a0Wouldn\'92t that plan work?\'94\
\
\'93_Work_? \'a0Why, cert\'92nly it would work, like rats a-fighting. \'a0But it\'92s\
too blame\'92 simple; there ain\'92t nothing _to_ it. \'a0What\'92s the good of a\
plan that ain\'92t no more trouble than that? \'a0It\'92s as mild as goose-milk.\
\'a0Why, Huck, it wouldn\'92t make no more talk than breaking into a soap\
factory.\'94\
\
I never said nothing, because I warn\'92t expecting nothing different; but\
I knowed mighty well that whenever he got _his_ plan ready it wouldn\'92t\
have none of them objections to it.\
\
And it didn\'92t. \'a0He told me what it was, and I see in a minute it was\
worth fifteen of mine for style, and would make Jim just as free a man\
as mine would, and maybe get us all killed besides. \'a0So I was satisfied,\
and said we would waltz in on it. \'a0I needn\'92t tell what it was here,\
because I knowed it wouldn\'92t stay the way, it was. \'a0I knowed he would be\
changing it around every which way as we went along, and heaving in new\
bullinesses wherever he got a chance. \'a0And that is what he done.\
\
Well, one thing was dead sure, and that was that Tom Sawyer was in\
earnest, and was actuly going to help steal that nigger out of slavery.\
That was the thing that was too many for me. \'a0Here was a boy that was\
respectable and well brung up; and had a character to lose; and folks at\
home that had characters; and he was bright and not leather-headed; and\
knowing and not ignorant; and not mean, but kind; and yet here he was,\
without any more pride, or rightness, or feeling, than to stoop to\
this business, and make himself a shame, and his family a shame,\
before everybody. \'a0I _couldn\'92t_ understand it no way at all. \'a0It was\
outrageous, and I knowed I ought to just up and tell him so; and so be\
his true friend, and let him quit the thing right where he was and save\
himself. And I _did_ start to tell him; but he shut me up, and says:\
\
\'93Don\'92t you reckon I know what I\'92m about? \'a0Don\'92t I generly know what I\'92m\
about?\'94\
\
\'93Yes.\'94\
\
\'93Didn\'92t I _say_ I was going to help steal the nigger?\'94\
\
\'93Yes.\'94\
\
\'93_Well_, then.\'94\
\
That\'92s all he said, and that\'92s all I said. \'a0It warn\'92t no use to say any\
more; because when he said he\'92d do a thing, he always done it. \'a0But I\
couldn\'92t make out how he was willing to go into this thing; so I just\
let it go, and never bothered no more about it. \'a0If he was bound to have\
it so, I couldn\'92t help it.\
\
When we got home the house was all dark and still; so we went on down to\
the hut by the ash-hopper for to examine it. \'a0We went through the yard\
so as to see what the hounds would do. \'a0They knowed us, and didn\'92t make\
no more noise than country dogs is always doing when anything comes by\
in the night. \'a0When we got to the cabin we took a look at the front and\
the two sides; and on the side I warn\'92t acquainted with--which was the\
north side--we found a square window-hole, up tolerable high, with just\
one stout board nailed across it. \'a0I says:\
\
\'93Here\'92s the ticket. \'a0This hole\'92s big enough for Jim to get through if we\
wrench off the board.\'94\
\
Tom says:\
\
\'93It\'92s as simple as tit-tat-toe, three-in-a-row, and as easy as\
playing hooky. \'a0I should _hope_ we can find a way that\'92s a little more\
complicated than _that_, Huck Finn.\'94\
\
\'93Well, then,\'94 I says, \'93how \'91ll it do to saw him out, the way I done\
before I was murdered that time?\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s more _like_,\'94 he says.  \'93It\'92s real mysterious, and troublesome,\
and good,\'94 he says; \'93but I bet we can find a way that\'92s twice as long.\
\'a0There ain\'92t no hurry; le\'92s keep on looking around.\'94\
\
Betwixt the hut and the fence, on the back side, was a lean-to that\
joined the hut at the eaves, and was made out of plank. \'a0It was as long\
as the hut, but narrow--only about six foot wide. \'a0The door to it was at\
the south end, and was padlocked. \'a0Tom he went to the soap-kettle and\
searched around, and fetched back the iron thing they lift the lid with;\
so he took it and prized out one of the staples. \'a0The chain fell down,\
and we opened the door and went in, and shut it, and struck a match,\
and see the shed was only built against a cabin and hadn\'92t no connection\
with it; and there warn\'92t no floor to the shed, nor nothing in it but\
some old rusty played-out hoes and spades and picks and a crippled plow.\
\'a0The match went out, and so did we, and shoved in the staple again, and\
the door was locked as good as ever. Tom was joyful. \'a0He says;\
\
\'93Now we\'92re all right. \'a0We\'92ll _dig_ him out. \'a0It \'91ll take about a week!\'94\
\
Then we started for the house, and I went in the back door--you only have\
to pull a buckskin latch-string, they don\'92t fasten the doors--but that\
warn\'92t romantical enough for Tom Sawyer; no way would do him but he must\
climb up the lightning-rod. \'a0But after he got up half way about three\
times, and missed fire and fell every time, and the last time most\
busted his brains out, he thought he\'92d got to give it up; but after he\
was rested he allowed he would give her one more turn for luck, and this\
time he made the trip.\
\
In the morning we was up at break of day, and down to the nigger cabins\
to pet the dogs and make friends with the nigger that fed Jim--if it\
_was_ Jim that was being fed. \'a0The niggers was just getting through\
breakfast and starting for the fields; and Jim\'92s nigger was piling up\
a tin pan with bread and meat and things; and whilst the others was\
leaving, the key come from the house.\
\
This nigger had a good-natured, chuckle-headed face, and his wool was\
all tied up in little bunches with thread. \'a0That was to keep witches\
off. \'a0He said the witches was pestering him awful these nights, and\
making him see all kinds of strange things, and hear all kinds of\
strange words and noises, and he didn\'92t believe he was ever witched so\
long before in his life. \'a0He got so worked up, and got to running on so\
about his troubles, he forgot all about what he\'92d been a-going to do.\
\'a0So Tom says:\
\
\'93What\'92s the vittles for? \'a0Going to feed the dogs?\'94\
\
The nigger kind of smiled around gradually over his face, like when you\
heave a brickbat in a mud-puddle, and he says:\
\
\'93Yes, Mars Sid, A dog. \'a0Cur\'92us dog, too. \'a0Does you want to go en look at\
\'91im?\'94\
\
\'93Yes.\'94\
\
I hunched Tom, and whispers:\
\
\'93You going, right here in the daybreak? \'a0_that_ warn\'92t the plan.\'94\
\
\'93No, it warn\'92t; but it\'92s the plan _now_.\'94\
\
So, drat him, we went along, but I didn\'92t like it much. \'a0When we got in\
we couldn\'92t hardly see anything, it was so dark; but Jim was there, sure\
enough, and could see us; and he sings out:\
\
\'93Why, _Huck_! \'a0En good _lan_\'92! ain\'92 dat Misto Tom?\'94\
\
I just knowed how it would be; I just expected it. \'a0I didn\'92t know\
nothing to do; and if I had I couldn\'92t a done it, because that nigger\
busted in and says:\
\
\'93Why, de gracious sakes! do he know you genlmen?\'94\
\
We could see pretty well now. \'a0Tom he looked at the nigger, steady and\
kind of wondering, and says:\
\
\'93Does _who_ know us?\'94\
\
\'93Why, dis-yer runaway nigger.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t reckon he does; but what put that into your head?\'94\
\
\'93What _put_ it dar? \'a0Didn\'92 he jis\'92 dis minute sing out like he knowed\
you?\'94\
\
Tom says, in a puzzled-up kind of way:\
\
\'93Well, that\'92s mighty curious. \'a0_Who_ sung out? _when_ did he sing out?\
\'a0_what_ did he sing out?\'94 And turns to me, perfectly ca\'92m, and says,\
\'93Did _you_ hear anybody sing out?\'94\
\
Of course there warn\'92t nothing to be said but the one thing; so I says:\
\
\'93No; I ain\'92t heard nobody say nothing.\'94\
\
Then he turns to Jim, and looks him over like he never see him before,\
and says:\
\
\'93Did you sing out?\'94\
\
\'93No, sah,\'94 says Jim; \'93I hain\'92t said nothing, sah.\'94\
\
\'93Not a word?\'94\
\
\'93No, sah, I hain\'92t said a word.\'94\
\
\'93Did you ever see us before?\'94\
\
\'93No, sah; not as I knows on.\'94\
\
So Tom turns to the nigger, which was looking wild and distressed, and\
says, kind of severe:\
\
\'93What do you reckon\'92s the matter with you, anyway? \'a0What made you think\
somebody sung out?\'94\
\
\'93Oh, it\'92s de dad-blame\'92 witches, sah, en I wisht I was dead, I do.\
\'a0Dey\'92s awluz at it, sah, en dey do mos\'92 kill me, dey sk\'92yers me so.\
\'a0Please to don\'92t tell nobody \'91bout it sah, er ole Mars Silas he\'92ll scole\
me; \'91kase he say dey _ain\'92t_ no witches. \'a0I jis\'92 wish to goodness he was\
heah now--_den_ what would he say! \'a0I jis\'92 bet he couldn\'92 fine no way to\
git aroun\'92 it _dis_ time. \'a0But it\'92s awluz jis\'92 so; people dat\'92s _sot_,\
stays sot; dey won\'92t look into noth\'92n\'92en fine it out f\'92r deyselves, en\
when _you_ fine it out en tell um \'91bout it, dey doan\'92 b\'92lieve you.\'94\
\
Tom give him a dime, and said we wouldn\'92t tell nobody; and told him to\
buy some more thread to tie up his wool with; and then looks at Jim, and\
says:\
\
\'93I wonder if Uncle Silas is going to hang this nigger. \'a0If I was to\
catch a nigger that was ungrateful enough to run away, I wouldn\'92t give\
him up, I\'92d hang him.\'94 \'a0And whilst the nigger stepped to the door to\
look at the dime and bite it to see if it was good, he whispers to Jim\
and says:\
\
\'93Don\'92t ever let on to know us. \'a0And if you hear any digging going on\
nights, it\'92s us; we\'92re going to set you free.\'94\
\
Jim only had time to grab us by the hand and squeeze it; then the nigger\
come back, and we said we\'92d come again some time if the nigger wanted\
us to; and he said he would, more particular if it was dark, because the\
witches went for him mostly in the dark, and it was good to have folks\
around then.\
\
\
\
\
CHAPTER XXXV.\
\
IT would be most an hour yet till breakfast, so we left and struck down\
into the woods; because Tom said we got to have _some_ light to see how\
to dig by, and a lantern makes too much, and might get us into trouble;\
what we must have was a lot of them rotten chunks that\'92s called\
fox-fire, and just makes a soft kind of a glow when you lay them in a\
dark place. \'a0We fetched an armful and hid it in the weeds, and set down\
to rest, and Tom says, kind of dissatisfied:\
\
\'93Blame it, this whole thing is just as easy and awkward as it can be.\
And so it makes it so rotten difficult to get up a difficult plan.\
\'a0There ain\'92t no watchman to be drugged--now there _ought_ to be a\
watchman. \'a0There ain\'92t even a dog to give a sleeping-mixture to. \'a0And\
there\'92s Jim chained by one leg, with a ten-foot chain, to the leg of his\
bed: \'a0why, all you got to do is to lift up the bedstead and slip off\
the chain. \'a0And Uncle Silas he trusts everybody; sends the key to the\
punkin-headed nigger, and don\'92t send nobody to watch the nigger. \'a0Jim\
could a got out of that window-hole before this, only there wouldn\'92t be\
no use trying to travel with a ten-foot chain on his leg. \'a0Why, drat it,\
Huck, it\'92s the stupidest arrangement I ever see. You got to invent _all_\
the difficulties. \'a0Well, we can\'92t help it; we got to do the best we can\
with the materials we\'92ve got. Anyhow, there\'92s one thing--there\'92s more\
honor in getting him out through a lot of difficulties and dangers,\
where there warn\'92t one of them furnished to you by the people who it was\
their duty to furnish them, and you had to contrive them all out of your\
own head. \'a0Now look at just that one thing of the lantern. \'a0When you\
come down to the cold facts, we simply got to _let on_ that a lantern\'92s\
resky. \'a0Why, we could work with a torchlight procession if we wanted to,\
I believe. \'a0Now, whilst I think of it, we got to hunt up something to\
make a saw out of the first chance we get.\'94\
\
\'93What do we want of a saw?\'94\
\
\'93What do we _want_ of it? \'a0Hain\'92t we got to saw the leg of Jim\'92s bed\
off, so as to get the chain loose?\'94\
\
\'93Why, you just said a body could lift up the bedstead and slip the chain\
off.\'94\
\
\'93Well, if that ain\'92t just like you, Huck Finn. \'a0You _can_ get up the\
infant-schooliest ways of going at a thing. \'a0Why, hain\'92t you ever read\
any books at all?--Baron Trenck, nor Casanova, nor Benvenuto Chelleeny,\
nor Henri IV., nor none of them heroes? \'a0Who ever heard of getting a\
prisoner loose in such an old-maidy way as that? \'a0No; the way all the\
best authorities does is to saw the bed-leg in two, and leave it just\
so, and swallow the sawdust, so it can\'92t be found, and put some dirt and\
grease around the sawed place so the very keenest seneskal can\'92t see\
no sign of it\'92s being sawed, and thinks the bed-leg is perfectly sound.\
Then, the night you\'92re ready, fetch the leg a kick, down she goes; slip\
off your chain, and there you are. \'a0Nothing to do but hitch your\
rope ladder to the battlements, shin down it, break your leg in the\
moat--because a rope ladder is nineteen foot too short, you know--and\
there\'92s your horses and your trusty vassles, and they scoop you up and\
fling you across a saddle, and away you go to your native Langudoc, or\
Navarre, or wherever it is. It\'92s gaudy, Huck. \'a0I wish there was a moat\
to this cabin. If we get time, the night of the escape, we\'92ll dig one.\'94\
\
I says:\
\
\'93What do we want of a moat when we\'92re going to snake him out from under\
the cabin?\'94\
\
But he never heard me. \'a0He had forgot me and everything else. \'a0He had\
his chin in his hand, thinking. \'a0Pretty soon he sighs and shakes his\
head; then sighs again, and says:\
\
\'93No, it wouldn\'92t do--there ain\'92t necessity enough for it.\'94\
\
\'93For what?\'94 \'a0I says.\
\
\'93Why, to saw Jim\'92s leg off,\'94 he says.\
\
\'93Good land!\'94 \'a0I says; \'93why, there ain\'92t _no_ necessity for it. \'a0And what\
would you want to saw his leg off for, anyway?\'94\
\
\'93Well, some of the best authorities has done it. \'a0They couldn\'92t get the\
chain off, so they just cut their hand off and shoved. \'a0And a leg would\
be better still. \'a0But we got to let that go. \'a0There ain\'92t necessity\
enough in this case; and, besides, Jim\'92s a nigger, and wouldn\'92t\
understand the reasons for it, and how it\'92s the custom in Europe; so\
we\'92ll let it go. \'a0But there\'92s one thing--he can have a rope ladder; we\
can tear up our sheets and make him a rope ladder easy enough. \'a0And we\
can send it to him in a pie; it\'92s mostly done that way. \'a0And I\'92ve et\
worse pies.\'94\
\
\'93Why, Tom Sawyer, how you talk,\'94 I says; \'93Jim ain\'92t got no use for a\
rope ladder.\'94\
\
\'93He _has_ got use for it. \'a0How _you_ talk, you better say; you don\'92t\
know nothing about it. \'a0He\'92s _got_ to have a rope ladder; they all do.\'94\
\
\'93What in the nation can he _do_ with it?\'94\
\
\'93_Do_ with it? \'a0He can hide it in his bed, can\'92t he?\'94 \'a0That\'92s what they\
all do; and _he\'92s_ got to, too. \'a0Huck, you don\'92t ever seem to want to do\
anything that\'92s regular; you want to be starting something fresh all the\
time. S\'92pose he _don\'92t_ do nothing with it? ain\'92t it there in his bed,\
for a clew, after he\'92s gone? and don\'92t you reckon they\'92ll want clews?\
\'a0Of course they will. \'a0And you wouldn\'92t leave them any? \'a0That would be a\
_pretty_ howdy-do, _wouldn\'92t_ it! \'a0I never heard of such a thing.\'94\
\
\'93Well,\'94 I says, \'93if it\'92s in the regulations, and he\'92s got to have\
it, all right, let him have it; because I don\'92t wish to go back on no\
regulations; but there\'92s one thing, Tom Sawyer--if we go to tearing up\
our sheets to make Jim a rope ladder, we\'92re going to get into trouble\
with Aunt Sally, just as sure as you\'92re born. \'a0Now, the way I look at\
it, a hickry-bark ladder don\'92t cost nothing, and don\'92t waste nothing,\
and is just as good to load up a pie with, and hide in a straw tick,\
as any rag ladder you can start; and as for Jim, he ain\'92t had no\
experience, and so he don\'92t care what kind of a--\'94\
\
\'93Oh, shucks, Huck Finn, if I was as ignorant as you I\'92d keep\
still--that\'92s what I\'92D do. \'a0Who ever heard of a state prisoner escaping\
by a hickry-bark ladder? \'a0Why, it\'92s perfectly ridiculous.\'94\
\
\'93Well, all right, Tom, fix it your own way; but if you\'92ll take my\
advice, you\'92ll let me borrow a sheet off of the clothesline.\'94\
\
He said that would do. \'a0And that gave him another idea, and he says:\
\
\'93Borrow a shirt, too.\'94\
\
\'93What do we want of a shirt, Tom?\'94\
\
\'93Want it for Jim to keep a journal on.\'94\
\
\'93Journal your granny--_Jim_ can\'92t write.\'94\
\
\'93S\'92pose he _can\'92t_ write--he can make marks on the shirt, can\'92t he, if\
we make him a pen out of an old pewter spoon or a piece of an old iron\
barrel-hoop?\'94\
\
\'93Why, Tom, we can pull a feather out of a goose and make him a better\
one; and quicker, too.\'94\
\
\'93_Prisoners_ don\'92t have geese running around the donjon-keep to pull\
pens out of, you muggins. \'a0They _always_ make their pens out of the\
hardest, toughest, troublesomest piece of old brass candlestick or\
something like that they can get their hands on; and it takes them weeks\
and weeks and months and months to file it out, too, because they\'92ve got\
to do it by rubbing it on the wall. \'a0_They_ wouldn\'92t use a goose-quill\
if they had it. It ain\'92t regular.\'94\
\
\'93Well, then, what\'92ll we make him the ink out of?\'94\
\
\'93Many makes it out of iron-rust and tears; but that\'92s the common sort\
and women; the best authorities uses their own blood. \'a0Jim can do that;\
and when he wants to send any little common ordinary mysterious message\
to let the world know where he\'92s captivated, he can write it on the\
bottom of a tin plate with a fork and throw it out of the window. \'a0The\
Iron Mask always done that, and it\'92s a blame\'92 good way, too.\'94\
\
\'93Jim ain\'92t got no tin plates. \'a0They feed him in a pan.\'94\
\
\'93That ain\'92t nothing; we can get him some.\'94\
\
\'93Can\'92t nobody _read_ his plates.\'94\
\
\'93That ain\'92t got anything to _do_ with it, Huck Finn. \'a0All _he\'92s_ got to\
do is to write on the plate and throw it out. \'a0You don\'92t _have_ to be\
able to read it. Why, half the time you can\'92t read anything a prisoner\
writes on a tin plate, or anywhere else.\'94\
\
\'93Well, then, what\'92s the sense in wasting the plates?\'94\
\
\'93Why, blame it all, it ain\'92t the _prisoner\'92s_ plates.\'94\
\
\'93But it\'92s _somebody\'92s_ plates, ain\'92t it?\'94\
\
\'93Well, spos\'92n it is? \'a0What does the _prisoner_ care whose--\'94\
\
He broke off there, because we heard the breakfast-horn blowing. \'a0So we\
cleared out for the house.\
\
Along during the morning I borrowed a sheet and a white shirt off of the\
clothes-line; and I found an old sack and put them in it, and we went\
down and got the fox-fire, and put that in too. \'a0I called it borrowing,\
because that was what pap always called it; but Tom said it warn\'92t\
borrowing, it was stealing. \'a0He said we was representing prisoners; and\
prisoners don\'92t care how they get a thing so they get it, and nobody\
don\'92t blame them for it, either. \'a0It ain\'92t no crime in a prisoner to\
steal the thing he needs to get away with, Tom said; it\'92s his right; and\
so, as long as we was representing a prisoner, we had a perfect right to\
steal anything on this place we had the least use for to get ourselves\
out of prison with. \'a0He said if we warn\'92t prisoners it would be a very\
different thing, and nobody but a mean, ornery person would steal when\
he warn\'92t a prisoner. \'a0So we allowed we would steal everything there was\
that come handy. \'a0And yet he made a mighty fuss, one day, after that,\
when I stole a watermelon out of the nigger-patch and eat it; and he\
made me go and give the niggers a dime without telling them what it\
was for. Tom said that what he meant was, we could steal anything we\
_needed_. Well, I says, I needed the watermelon. \'a0But he said I didn\'92t\
need it to get out of prison with; there\'92s where the difference was.\
\'a0He said if I\'92d a wanted it to hide a knife in, and smuggle it to Jim\
to kill the seneskal with, it would a been all right. \'a0So I let it go at\
that, though I couldn\'92t see no advantage in my representing a prisoner\
if I got to set down and chaw over a lot of gold-leaf distinctions like\
that every time I see a chance to hog a watermelon.\
\
Well, as I was saying, we waited that morning till everybody was settled\
down to business, and nobody in sight around the yard; then Tom he\
carried the sack into the lean-to whilst I stood off a piece to keep\
watch. \'a0By and by he come out, and we went and set down on the woodpile\
to talk. \'a0He says:\
\
\'93Everything\'92s all right now except tools; and that\'92s easy fixed.\'94\
\
\'93Tools?\'94 \'a0I says.\
\
\'93Yes.\'94\
\
\'93Tools for what?\'94\
\
\'93Why, to dig with. \'a0We ain\'92t a-going to _gnaw_ him out, are we?\'94\
\
\'93Ain\'92t them old crippled picks and things in there good enough to dig a\
nigger out with?\'94 \'a0I says.\
\
He turns on me, looking pitying enough to make a body cry, and says:\
\
\'93Huck Finn, did you _ever_ hear of a prisoner having picks and shovels,\
and all the modern conveniences in his wardrobe to dig himself out with?\
\'a0Now I want to ask you--if you got any reasonableness in you at all--what\
kind of a show would _that_ give him to be a hero? \'a0Why, they might as\
well lend him the key and done with it. \'a0Picks and shovels--why, they\
wouldn\'92t furnish \'91em to a king.\'94\
\
\'93Well, then,\'94 I says, \'93if we don\'92t want the picks and shovels, what do\
we want?\'94\
\
\'93A couple of case-knives.\'94\
\
\'93To dig the foundations out from under that cabin with?\'94\
\
\'93Yes.\'94\
\
\'93Confound it, it\'92s foolish, Tom.\'94\
\
\'93It don\'92t make no difference how foolish it is, it\'92s the _right_ way--and\
it\'92s the regular way. \'a0And there ain\'92t no _other_ way, that ever I heard\
of, and I\'92ve read all the books that gives any information about these\
things. They always dig out with a case-knife--and not through dirt, mind\
you; generly it\'92s through solid rock. \'a0And it takes them weeks and weeks\
and weeks, and for ever and ever. \'a0Why, look at one of them prisoners in\
the bottom dungeon of the Castle Deef, in the harbor of Marseilles, that\
dug himself out that way; how long was _he_ at it, you reckon?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know.\'94\
\
\'93Well, guess.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know. \'a0A month and a half.\'94\
\
\'93_Thirty-seven year_--and he come out in China. \'a0_That\'92s_ the kind. \'a0I\
wish the bottom of _this_ fortress was solid rock.\'94\
\
\'93_Jim_ don\'92t know nobody in China.\'94\
\
\'93What\'92s _that_ got to do with it? \'a0Neither did that other fellow. \'a0But\
you\'92re always a-wandering off on a side issue. \'a0Why can\'92t you stick to\
the main point?\'94\
\
\'93All right--I don\'92t care where he comes out, so he _comes_ out; and Jim\
don\'92t, either, I reckon. \'a0But there\'92s one thing, anyway--Jim\'92s too old to\
be dug out with a case-knife. \'a0He won\'92t last.\'94\
\
\'93Yes he will _last_, too. \'a0You don\'92t reckon it\'92s going to take\
thirty-seven years to dig out through a _dirt_ foundation, do you?\'94\
\
\'93How long will it take, Tom?\'94\
\
\'93Well, we can\'92t resk being as long as we ought to, because it mayn\'92t\
take very long for Uncle Silas to hear from down there by New Orleans.\
\'a0He\'92ll hear Jim ain\'92t from there. \'a0Then his next move will be to\
advertise Jim, or something like that. \'a0So we can\'92t resk being as long\
digging him out as we ought to. \'a0By rights I reckon we ought to be\
a couple of years; but we can\'92t. \'a0Things being so uncertain, what I\
recommend is this: \'a0that we really dig right in, as quick as we can;\
and after that, we can _let on_, to ourselves, that we was at it\
thirty-seven years. \'a0Then we can snatch him out and rush him away the\
first time there\'92s an alarm. \'a0Yes, I reckon that \'91ll be the best way.\'94\
\
\'93Now, there\'92s _sense_ in that,\'94 I says.  \'93Letting on don\'92t cost nothing;\
letting on ain\'92t no trouble; and if it\'92s any object, I don\'92t mind\
letting on we was at it a hundred and fifty year. \'a0It wouldn\'92t strain\
me none, after I got my hand in. \'a0So I\'92ll mosey along now, and smouch a\
couple of case-knives.\'94\
\
\'93Smouch three,\'94 he says; \'93we want one to make a saw out of.\'94\
\
\'93Tom, if it ain\'92t unregular and irreligious to sejest it,\'94 I says,\
\'93there\'92s an old rusty saw-blade around yonder sticking under the\
weather-boarding behind the smoke-house.\'94\
\
He looked kind of weary and discouraged-like, and says:\
\
\'93It ain\'92t no use to try to learn you nothing, Huck. \'a0Run along and\
smouch the knives--three of them.\'94 \'a0So I done it.\
\
\
\
\
CHAPTER XXXVI.\
\
AS soon as we reckoned everybody was asleep that night we went down the\
lightning-rod, and shut ourselves up in the lean-to, and got out our\
pile of fox-fire, and went to work. \'a0We cleared everything out of the\
way, about four or five foot along the middle of the bottom log. \'a0Tom\
said he was right behind Jim\'92s bed now, and we\'92d dig in under it, and\
when we got through there couldn\'92t nobody in the cabin ever know there\
was any hole there, because Jim\'92s counter-pin hung down most to the\
ground, and you\'92d have to raise it up and look under to see the hole.\
\'a0So we dug and dug with the case-knives till most midnight; and then\
we was dog-tired, and our hands was blistered, and yet you couldn\'92t see\
we\'92d done anything hardly. \'a0At last I says:\
\
\'93This ain\'92t no thirty-seven year job; this is a thirty-eight year job,\
Tom Sawyer.\'94\
\
He never said nothing. \'a0But he sighed, and pretty soon he stopped\
digging, and then for a good little while I knowed that he was thinking.\
Then he says:\
\
\'93It ain\'92t no use, Huck, it ain\'92t a-going to work. \'a0If we was prisoners\
it would, because then we\'92d have as many years as we wanted, and no\
hurry; and we wouldn\'92t get but a few minutes to dig, every day, while\
they was changing watches, and so our hands wouldn\'92t get blistered, and\
we could keep it up right along, year in and year out, and do it right,\
and the way it ought to be done. \'a0But _we_ can\'92t fool along; we got to\
rush; we ain\'92t got no time to spare. \'a0If we was to put in another\
night this way we\'92d have to knock off for a week to let our hands get\
well--couldn\'92t touch a case-knife with them sooner.\'94\
\
\'93Well, then, what we going to do, Tom?\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll tell you. \'a0It ain\'92t right, and it ain\'92t moral, and I wouldn\'92t like\
it to get out; but there ain\'92t only just the one way: \'a0we got to dig him\
out with the picks, and _let on_ it\'92s case-knives.\'94\
\
\'93_Now_ you\'92re _talking_!\'94 \'a0I says; \'93your head gets leveler and leveler\
all the time, Tom Sawyer,\'94 I says.  \'93Picks is the thing, moral or no\
moral; and as for me, I don\'92t care shucks for the morality of it, nohow.\
\'a0When I start in to steal a nigger, or a watermelon, or a Sunday-school\
book, I ain\'92t no ways particular how it\'92s done so it\'92s done. \'a0What I\
want is my nigger; or what I want is my watermelon; or what I want is my\
Sunday-school book; and if a pick\'92s the handiest thing, that\'92s the thing\
I\'92m a-going to dig that nigger or that watermelon or that Sunday-school\
book out with; and I don\'92t give a dead rat what the authorities thinks\
about it nuther.\'94\
\
\'93Well,\'94 he says, \'93there\'92s excuse for picks and letting-on in a case like\
this; if it warn\'92t so, I wouldn\'92t approve of it, nor I wouldn\'92t stand by\
and see the rules broke--because right is right, and wrong is wrong,\
and a body ain\'92t got no business doing wrong when he ain\'92t ignorant and\
knows better. \'a0It might answer for _you_ to dig Jim out with a pick,\
_without_ any letting on, because you don\'92t know no better; but it\
wouldn\'92t for me, because I do know better. \'a0Gimme a case-knife.\'94\
\
He had his own by him, but I handed him mine. \'a0He flung it down, and\
says:\
\
\'93Gimme a _case-knife_.\'94\
\
I didn\'92t know just what to do--but then I thought. \'a0I scratched around\
amongst the old tools, and got a pickaxe and give it to him, and he took\
it and went to work, and never said a word.\
\
He was always just that particular. \'a0Full of principle.\
\
So then I got a shovel, and then we picked and shoveled, turn about,\
and made the fur fly. \'a0We stuck to it about a half an hour, which was as\
long as we could stand up; but we had a good deal of a hole to show for\
it. When I got up stairs I looked out at the window and see Tom doing\
his level best with the lightning-rod, but he couldn\'92t come it, his\
hands was so sore. \'a0At last he says:\
\
\'93It ain\'92t no use, it can\'92t be done. \'a0What you reckon I better do? \'a0Can\'92t\
you think of no way?\'94\
\
\'93Yes,\'94 I says, \'93but I reckon it ain\'92t regular. \'a0Come up the stairs, and\
let on it\'92s a lightning-rod.\'94\
\
So he done it.\
\
Next day Tom stole a pewter spoon and a brass candlestick in the house,\
for to make some pens for Jim out of, and six tallow candles; and I\
hung around the nigger cabins and laid for a chance, and stole three tin\
plates. \'a0Tom says it wasn\'92t enough; but I said nobody wouldn\'92t ever see\
the plates that Jim throwed out, because they\'92d fall in the dog-fennel\
and jimpson weeds under the window-hole--then we could tote them back and\
he could use them over again. \'a0So Tom was satisfied. \'a0Then he says:\
\
\'93Now, the thing to study out is, how to get the things to Jim.\'94\
\
\'93Take them in through the hole,\'94 I says, \'93when we get it done.\'94\
\
He only just looked scornful, and said something about nobody ever heard\
of such an idiotic idea, and then he went to studying. \'a0By and by he\
said he had ciphered out two or three ways, but there warn\'92t no need to\
decide on any of them yet. \'a0Said we\'92d got to post Jim first.\
\
That night we went down the lightning-rod a little after ten, and took\
one of the candles along, and listened under the window-hole, and heard\
Jim snoring; so we pitched it in, and it didn\'92t wake him. \'a0Then we\
whirled in with the pick and shovel, and in about two hours and a half\
the job was done. \'a0We crept in under Jim\'92s bed and into the cabin, and\
pawed around and found the candle and lit it, and stood over Jim awhile,\
and found him looking hearty and healthy, and then we woke him up gentle\
and gradual. \'a0He was so glad to see us he most cried; and called us\
honey, and all the pet names he could think of; and was for having us\
hunt up a cold-chisel to cut the chain off of his leg with right away,\
and clearing out without losing any time. \'a0But Tom he showed him how\
unregular it would be, and set down and told him all about our plans,\
and how we could alter them in a minute any time there was an alarm; and\
not to be the least afraid, because we would see he got away, _sure_.\
\'a0So Jim he said it was all right, and we set there and talked over old\
times awhile, and then Tom asked a lot of questions, and when Jim told\
him Uncle Silas come in every day or two to pray with him, and Aunt\
Sally come in to see if he was comfortable and had plenty to eat, and\
both of them was kind as they could be, Tom says:\
\
\'93_Now_ I know how to fix it. \'a0We\'92ll send you some things by them.\'94\
\
I said, \'93Don\'92t do nothing of the kind; it\'92s one of the most jackass\
ideas I ever struck;\'94 but he never paid no attention to me; went right\
on. \'a0It was his way when he\'92d got his plans set.\
\
So he told Jim how we\'92d have to smuggle in the rope-ladder pie and other\
large things by Nat, the nigger that fed him, and he must be on the\
lookout, and not be surprised, and not let Nat see him open them; and\
we would put small things in uncle\'92s coat-pockets and he must steal them\
out; and we would tie things to aunt\'92s apron-strings or put them in her\
apron-pocket, if we got a chance; and told him what they would be and\
what they was for. \'a0And told him how to keep a journal on the shirt with\
his blood, and all that. He told him everything. \'a0Jim he couldn\'92t see\
no sense in the most of it, but he allowed we was white folks and knowed\
better than him; so he was satisfied, and said he would do it all just\
as Tom said.\
\
Jim had plenty corn-cob pipes and tobacco; so we had a right down good\
sociable time; then we crawled out through the hole, and so home to\
bed, with hands that looked like they\'92d been chawed. \'a0Tom was in high\
spirits. He said it was the best fun he ever had in his life, and the\
most intellectural; and said if he only could see his way to it we would\
keep it up all the rest of our lives and leave Jim to our children to\
get out; for he believed Jim would come to like it better and better the\
more he got used to it. \'a0He said that in that way it could be strung out\
to as much as eighty year, and would be the best time on record. \'a0And he\
said it would make us all celebrated that had a hand in it.\
\
In the morning we went out to the woodpile and chopped up the brass\
candlestick into handy sizes, and Tom put them and the pewter spoon in\
his pocket. \'a0Then we went to the nigger cabins, and while I got Nat\'92s\
notice off, Tom shoved a piece of candlestick into the middle of a\
corn-pone that was in Jim\'92s pan, and we went along with Nat to see how\
it would work, and it just worked noble; when Jim bit into it it most\
mashed all his teeth out; and there warn\'92t ever anything could a worked\
better. Tom said so himself. Jim he never let on but what it was only\
just a piece of rock or something like that that\'92s always getting into\
bread, you know; but after that he never bit into nothing but what he\
jabbed his fork into it in three or four places first.\
\
And whilst we was a-standing there in the dimmish light, here comes a\
couple of the hounds bulging in from under Jim\'92s bed; and they kept on\
piling in till there was eleven of them, and there warn\'92t hardly room\
in there to get your breath. \'a0By jings, we forgot to fasten that lean-to\
door! \'a0The nigger Nat he only just hollered \'93Witches\'94 once, and keeled\
over on to the floor amongst the dogs, and begun to groan like he was\
dying. \'a0Tom jerked the door open and flung out a slab of Jim\'92s meat,\
and the dogs went for it, and in two seconds he was out himself and back\
again and shut the door, and I knowed he\'92d fixed the other door too.\
Then he went to work on the nigger, coaxing him and petting him, and\
asking him if he\'92d been imagining he saw something again. \'a0He raised up,\
and blinked his eyes around, and says:\
\
\'93Mars Sid, you\'92ll say I\'92s a fool, but if I didn\'92t b\'92lieve I see most a\
million dogs, er devils, er some\'92n, I wisht I may die right heah in dese\
tracks. \'a0I did, mos\'92 sholy. \'a0Mars Sid, I _felt_ um--I _felt_ um, sah; dey\
was all over me. \'a0Dad fetch it, I jis\'92 wisht I could git my han\'92s on one\
er dem witches jis\'92 wunst--on\'92y jis\'92 wunst--it\'92s all I\'92d ast. \'a0But mos\'92ly\
I wisht dey\'92d lemme \'91lone, I does.\'94\
\
Tom says:\
\
\'93Well, I tell you what I think. \'a0What makes them come here just at this\
runaway nigger\'92s breakfast-time? \'a0It\'92s because they\'92re hungry; that\'92s\
the reason. \'a0You make them a witch pie; that\'92s the thing for _you_ to\
do.\'94\
\
\'93But my lan\'92, Mars Sid, how\'92s I gwyne to make \'91m a witch pie? \'a0I doan\'92\
know how to make it. \'a0I hain\'92t ever hearn er sich a thing b\'92fo\'92.\'94\
\
\'93Well, then, I\'92ll have to make it myself.\'94\
\
\'93Will you do it, honey?--will you? \'a0I\'92ll wusshup de groun\'92 und\'92 yo\'92 foot,\
I will!\'94\
\
\'93All right, I\'92ll do it, seeing it\'92s you, and you\'92ve been good to us and\
showed us the runaway nigger. \'a0But you got to be mighty careful. \'a0When\
we come around, you turn your back; and then whatever we\'92ve put in the\
pan, don\'92t you let on you see it at all. \'a0And don\'92t you look when Jim\
unloads the pan--something might happen, I don\'92t know what. \'a0And above\
all, don\'92t you _handle_ the witch-things.\'94\
\
\'93_Hannel \'91M_, Mars Sid? \'a0What _is_ you a-talkin\'92 \'91bout? \'a0I wouldn\'92\
lay de weight er my finger on um, not f\'92r ten hund\'92d thous\'92n billion\
dollars, I wouldn\'92t.\'94\
\
\
\
\
CHAPTER XXXVII.\
\
THAT was all fixed. \'a0So then we went away and went to the rubbage-pile\
in the back yard, where they keep the old boots, and rags, and pieces\
of bottles, and wore-out tin things, and all such truck, and scratched\
around and found an old tin washpan, and stopped up the holes as well as\
we could, to bake the pie in, and took it down cellar and stole it full\
of flour and started for breakfast, and found a couple of shingle-nails\
that Tom said would be handy for a prisoner to scrabble his name and\
sorrows on the dungeon walls with, and dropped one of them in Aunt\
Sally\'92s apron-pocket which was hanging on a chair, and t\'92other we stuck\
in the band of Uncle Silas\'92s hat, which was on the bureau, because we\
heard the children say their pa and ma was going to the runaway nigger\'92s\
house this morning, and then went to breakfast, and Tom dropped the\
pewter spoon in Uncle Silas\'92s coat-pocket, and Aunt Sally wasn\'92t come\
yet, so we had to wait a little while.\
\
And when she come she was hot and red and cross, and couldn\'92t hardly\
wait for the blessing; and then she went to sluicing out coffee with one\
hand and cracking the handiest child\'92s head with her thimble with the\
other, and says:\
\
\'93I\'92ve hunted high and I\'92ve hunted low, and it does beat all what _has_\
become of your other shirt.\'94\
\
My heart fell down amongst my lungs and livers and things, and a hard\
piece of corn-crust started down my throat after it and got met on the\
road with a cough, and was shot across the table, and took one of the\
children in the eye and curled him up like a fishing-worm, and let a cry\
out of him the size of a warwhoop, and Tom he turned kinder blue around\
the gills, and it all amounted to a considerable state of things for\
about a quarter of a minute or as much as that, and I would a sold out\
for half price if there was a bidder. \'a0But after that we was all right\
again--it was the sudden surprise of it that knocked us so kind of cold.\
Uncle Silas he says:\
\
\'93It\'92s most uncommon curious, I can\'92t understand it. \'a0I know perfectly\
well I took it _off_, because--\'94\
\
\'93Because you hain\'92t got but one _on_. \'a0Just _listen_ at the man! \'a0I know\
you took it off, and know it by a better way than your wool-gethering\
memory, too, because it was on the clo\'92s-line yesterday--I see it there\
myself. But it\'92s gone, that\'92s the long and the short of it, and you\'92ll\
just have to change to a red flann\'92l one till I can get time to make a\
new one. And it \'91ll be the third I\'92ve made in two years. \'a0It just keeps\
a body on the jump to keep you in shirts; and whatever you do manage to\
_do_ with \'91m all is more\'92n I can make out. \'a0A body \'91d think you _would_\
learn to take some sort of care of \'91em at your time of life.\'94\
\
\'93I know it, Sally, and I do try all I can. \'a0But it oughtn\'92t to be\
altogether my fault, because, you know, I don\'92t see them nor have\
nothing to do with them except when they\'92re on me; and I don\'92t believe\
I\'92ve ever lost one of them _off_ of me.\'94\
\
\'93Well, it ain\'92t _your_ fault if you haven\'92t, Silas; you\'92d a done it\
if you could, I reckon. \'a0And the shirt ain\'92t all that\'92s gone, nuther.\
\'a0Ther\'92s a spoon gone; and _that_ ain\'92t all. \'a0There was ten, and now\
ther\'92s only nine. The calf got the shirt, I reckon, but the calf never\
took the spoon, _that\'92s_ certain.\'94\
\
\'93Why, what else is gone, Sally?\'94\
\
\'93Ther\'92s six _candles_ gone--that\'92s what. \'a0The rats could a got the\
candles, and I reckon they did; I wonder they don\'92t walk off with the\
whole place, the way you\'92re always going to stop their holes and don\'92t\
do it; and if they warn\'92t fools they\'92d sleep in your hair, Silas--_you\'92d_\
never find it out; but you can\'92t lay the _spoon_ on the rats, and that I\
know.\'94\
\
\'93Well, Sally, I\'92m in fault, and I acknowledge it; I\'92ve been remiss; but\
I won\'92t let to-morrow go by without stopping up them holes.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, I wouldn\'92t hurry; next year \'91ll do. \'a0Matilda Angelina Araminta\
_Phelps!_\'94\
\
Whack comes the thimble, and the child snatches her claws out of the\
sugar-bowl without fooling around any. \'a0Just then the nigger woman steps\
on to the passage, and says:\
\
\'93Missus, dey\'92s a sheet gone.\'94\
\
\'93A _sheet_ gone! \'a0Well, for the land\'92s sake!\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll stop up them holes to-day,\'94 says Uncle Silas, looking sorrowful.\
\
\'93Oh, _do_ shet up!--s\'92pose the rats took the _sheet_? \'a0_where\'92s_ it gone,\
Lize?\'94\
\
\'93Clah to goodness I hain\'92t no notion, Miss\'92 Sally. \'a0She wuz on de\
clo\'92sline yistiddy, but she done gone: \'a0she ain\'92 dah no mo\'92 now.\'94\
\
\'93I reckon the world _is_ coming to an end. \'a0I _never_ see the beat of it\
in all my born days. \'a0A shirt, and a sheet, and a spoon, and six can--\'94\
\
\'93Missus,\'94 comes a young yaller wench, \'93dey\'92s a brass cannelstick\
miss\'92n.\'94\
\
\'93Cler out from here, you hussy, er I\'92ll take a skillet to ye!\'94\
\
Well, she was just a-biling. \'a0I begun to lay for a chance; I reckoned\
I would sneak out and go for the woods till the weather moderated. \'a0She\
kept a-raging right along, running her insurrection all by herself, and\
everybody else mighty meek and quiet; and at last Uncle Silas, looking\
kind of foolish, fishes up that spoon out of his pocket. \'a0She stopped,\
with her mouth open and her hands up; and as for me, I wished I was in\
Jeruslem or somewheres. But not long, because she says:\
\
\'93It\'92s _just_ as I expected. \'a0So you had it in your pocket all the time;\
and like as not you\'92ve got the other things there, too. \'a0How\'92d it get\
there?\'94\
\
\'93I reely don\'92t know, Sally,\'94 he says, kind of apologizing, \'93or you know\
I would tell. \'a0I was a-studying over my text in Acts Seventeen before\
breakfast, and I reckon I put it in there, not noticing, meaning to put\
my Testament in, and it must be so, because my Testament ain\'92t in; but\
I\'92ll go and see; and if the Testament is where I had it, I\'92ll know I\
didn\'92t put it in, and that will show that I laid the Testament down and\
took up the spoon, and--\'94\
\
\'93Oh, for the land\'92s sake! \'a0Give a body a rest! \'a0Go \'91long now, the whole\
kit and biling of ye; and don\'92t come nigh me again till I\'92ve got back my\
peace of mind.\'94\
\
I\'92D a heard her if she\'92d a said it to herself, let alone speaking it\
out; and I\'92d a got up and obeyed her if I\'92d a been dead. \'a0As we was\
passing through the setting-room the old man he took up his hat, and the\
shingle-nail fell out on the floor, and he just merely picked it up and\
laid it on the mantel-shelf, and never said nothing, and went out. \'a0Tom\
see him do it, and remembered about the spoon, and says:\
\
\'93Well, it ain\'92t no use to send things by _him_ no more, he ain\'92t\
reliable.\'94 Then he says:  \'93But he done us a good turn with the spoon,\
anyway, without knowing it, and so we\'92ll go and do him one without _him_\
knowing it--stop up his rat-holes.\'94\
\
There was a noble good lot of them down cellar, and it took us a whole\
hour, but we done the job tight and good and shipshape. \'a0Then we heard\
steps on the stairs, and blowed out our light and hid; and here comes\
the old man, with a candle in one hand and a bundle of stuff in t\'92other,\
looking as absent-minded as year before last. \'a0He went a mooning around,\
first to one rat-hole and then another, till he\'92d been to them all.\
\'a0Then he stood about five minutes, picking tallow-drip off of his candle\
and thinking. \'a0Then he turns off slow and dreamy towards the stairs,\
saying:\
\
\'93Well, for the life of me I can\'92t remember when I done it. \'a0I could\
show her now that I warn\'92t to blame on account of the rats. \'a0But never\
mind--let it go. \'a0I reckon it wouldn\'92t do no good.\'94\
\
And so he went on a-mumbling up stairs, and then we left. \'a0He was a\
mighty nice old man. \'a0And always is.\
\
Tom was a good deal bothered about what to do for a spoon, but he said\
we\'92d got to have it; so he took a think. \'a0When he had ciphered it out\
he told me how we was to do; then we went and waited around the\
spoon-basket till we see Aunt Sally coming, and then Tom went to\
counting the spoons and laying them out to one side, and I slid one of\
them up my sleeve, and Tom says:\
\
\'93Why, Aunt Sally, there ain\'92t but nine spoons _yet_.\'94\
\
She says:\
\
\'93Go \'91long to your play, and don\'92t bother me. \'a0I know better, I counted\
\'91m myself.\'94\
\
\'93Well, I\'92ve counted them twice, Aunty, and I can\'92t make but nine.\'94\
\
She looked out of all patience, but of course she come to count--anybody\
would.\
\
\'93I declare to gracious ther\'92 _ain\'92t_ but nine!\'94 she says.  \'93Why, what in\
the world--plague _take_ the things, I\'92ll count \'91m again.\'94\
\
So I slipped back the one I had, and when she got done counting, she\
says:\
\
\'93Hang the troublesome rubbage, ther\'92s _ten_ now!\'94 and she looked huffy\
and bothered both. \'a0But Tom says:\
\
\'93Why, Aunty, I don\'92t think there\'92s ten.\'94\
\
\'93You numskull, didn\'92t you see me _count \'91m?_\'94\
\
\'93I know, but--\'94\
\
\'93Well, I\'92ll count \'91m _again_.\'94\
\
So I smouched one, and they come out nine, same as the other time.\
\'a0Well, she _was_ in a tearing way--just a-trembling all over, she was so\
mad. \'a0But she counted and counted till she got that addled she\'92d start\
to count in the basket for a spoon sometimes; and so, three times they\
come out right, and three times they come out wrong. \'a0Then she grabbed\
up the basket and slammed it across the house and knocked the cat\
galley-west; and she said cle\'92r out and let her have some peace, and if\
we come bothering around her again betwixt that and dinner she\'92d skin\
us. \'a0So we had the odd spoon, and dropped it in her apron-pocket whilst\
she was a-giving us our sailing orders, and Jim got it all right, along\
with her shingle nail, before noon. \'a0We was very well satisfied with\
this business, and Tom allowed it was worth twice the trouble it took,\
because he said _now_ she couldn\'92t ever count them spoons twice alike\
again to save her life; and wouldn\'92t believe she\'92d counted them right if\
she _did_; and said that after she\'92d about counted her head off for the\
next three days he judged she\'92d give it up and offer to kill anybody\
that wanted her to ever count them any more.\
\
So we put the sheet back on the line that night, and stole one out of\
her closet; and kept on putting it back and stealing it again for a\
couple of days till she didn\'92t know how many sheets she had any more,\
and she didn\'92t _care_, and warn\'92t a-going to bullyrag the rest of her\
soul out about it, and wouldn\'92t count them again not to save her life;\
she druther die first.\
\
So we was all right now, as to the shirt and the sheet and the spoon\
and the candles, by the help of the calf and the rats and the mixed-up\
counting; and as to the candlestick, it warn\'92t no consequence, it would\
blow over by and by.\
\
But that pie was a job; we had no end of trouble with that pie. \'a0We\
fixed it up away down in the woods, and cooked it there; and we got it\
done at last, and very satisfactory, too; but not all in one day; and we\
had to use up three wash-pans full of flour before we got through, and\
we got burnt pretty much all over, in places, and eyes put out with\
the smoke; because, you see, we didn\'92t want nothing but a crust, and we\
couldn\'92t prop it up right, and she would always cave in. \'a0But of course\
we thought of the right way at last--which was to cook the ladder, too,\
in the pie. \'a0So then we laid in with Jim the second night, and tore\
up the sheet all in little strings and twisted them together, and long\
before daylight we had a lovely rope that you could a hung a person\
with. \'a0We let on it took nine months to make it.\
\
And in the forenoon we took it down to the woods, but it wouldn\'92t go\
into the pie. \'a0Being made of a whole sheet, that way, there was rope\
enough for forty pies if we\'92d a wanted them, and plenty left over\
for soup, or sausage, or anything you choose. \'a0We could a had a whole\
dinner.\
\
But we didn\'92t need it. \'a0All we needed was just enough for the pie, and\
so we throwed the rest away. \'a0We didn\'92t cook none of the pies in the\
wash-pan--afraid the solder would melt; but Uncle Silas he had a noble\
brass warming-pan which he thought considerable of, because it belonged\
to one of his ancesters with a long wooden handle that come over from\
England with William the Conqueror in the Mayflower or one of them early\
ships and was hid away up garret with a lot of other old pots and things\
that was valuable, not on account of being any account, because they\
warn\'92t, but on account of them being relicts, you know, and we snaked\
her out, private, and took her down there, but she failed on the first\
pies, because we didn\'92t know how, but she come up smiling on the last\
one. \'a0We took and lined her with dough, and set her in the coals, and\
loaded her up with rag rope, and put on a dough roof, and shut down the\
lid, and put hot embers on top, and stood off five foot, with the long\
handle, cool and comfortable, and in fifteen minutes she turned out a\
pie that was a satisfaction to look at. But the person that et it would\
want to fetch a couple of kags of toothpicks along, for if that rope\
ladder wouldn\'92t cramp him down to business I don\'92t know nothing what I\'92m\
talking about, and lay him in enough stomach-ache to last him till next\
time, too.\
\
Nat didn\'92t look when we put the witch pie in Jim\'92s pan; and we put the\
three tin plates in the bottom of the pan under the vittles; and so Jim\
got everything all right, and as soon as he was by himself he busted\
into the pie and hid the rope ladder inside of his straw tick,\
and scratched some marks on a tin plate and throwed it out of the\
window-hole.\
\
\
\
\
CHAPTER XXXVIII.\
\
MAKING them pens was a distressid tough job, and so was the saw; and Jim\
allowed the inscription was going to be the toughest of all. \'a0That\'92s the\
one which the prisoner has to scrabble on the wall. \'a0But he had to have\
it; Tom said he\'92d _got_ to; there warn\'92t no case of a state prisoner not\
scrabbling his inscription to leave behind, and his coat of arms.\
\
\'93Look at Lady Jane Grey,\'94 he says; \'93look at Gilford Dudley; look at old\
Northumberland! \'a0Why, Huck, s\'92pose it _is_ considerble trouble?--what\
you going to do?--how you going to get around it? \'a0Jim\'92s _got_ to do his\
inscription and coat of arms. \'a0They all do.\'94\
\
Jim says:\
\
\'93Why, Mars Tom, I hain\'92t got no coat o\'92 arm; I hain\'92t got nuffn but dish\
yer ole shirt, en you knows I got to keep de journal on dat.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, you don\'92t understand, Jim; a coat of arms is very different.\'94\
\
\'93Well,\'94 I says, \'93Jim\'92s right, anyway, when he says he ain\'92t got no coat\
of arms, because he hain\'92t.\'94\
\
\'93I reckon I knowed that,\'94 Tom says, \'93but you bet he\'92ll have one before\
he goes out of this--because he\'92s going out _right_, and there ain\'92t\
going to be no flaws in his record.\'94\
\
So whilst me and Jim filed away at the pens on a brickbat apiece, Jim\
a-making his\'92n out of the brass and I making mine out of the spoon,\
Tom set to work to think out the coat of arms. \'a0By and by he said he\'92d\
struck so many good ones he didn\'92t hardly know which to take, but there\
was one which he reckoned he\'92d decide on. \'a0He says:\
\
\'93On the scutcheon we\'92ll have a bend _or_ in the dexter base, a saltire\
_murrey_ in the fess, with a dog, couchant, for common charge, and under\
his foot a chain embattled, for slavery, with a chevron _vert_ in a\
chief engrailed, and three invected lines on a field _azure_, with the\
nombril points rampant on a dancette indented; crest, a runaway nigger,\
_sable_, with his bundle over his shoulder on a bar sinister; and a\
couple of gules for supporters, which is you and me; motto, _Maggiore\
Fretta, Minore Otto._ \'a0Got it out of a book--means the more haste the\
less speed.\'94\
\
\'93Geewhillikins,\'94 I says, \'93but what does the rest of it mean?\'94\
\
\'93We ain\'92t got no time to bother over that,\'94 he says; \'93we got to dig in\
like all git-out.\'94\
\
\'93Well, anyway,\'94 I says, \'93what\'92s _some_ of it? \'a0What\'92s a fess?\'94\
\
\'93A fess--a fess is--_you_ don\'92t need to know what a fess is. \'a0I\'92ll show\
him how to make it when he gets to it.\'94\
\
\'93Shucks, Tom,\'94 I says, \'93I think you might tell a person. \'a0What\'92s a bar\
sinister?\'94\
\
\'93Oh, I don\'92t know. \'a0But he\'92s got to have it. \'a0All the nobility does.\'94\
\
That was just his way. \'a0If it didn\'92t suit him to explain a thing to you,\
he wouldn\'92t do it. \'a0You might pump at him a week, it wouldn\'92t make no\
difference.\
\
He\'92d got all that coat of arms business fixed, so now he started in to\
finish up the rest of that part of the work, which was to plan out a\
mournful inscription--said Jim got to have one, like they all done. \'a0He\
made up a lot, and wrote them out on a paper, and read them off, so:\
\
1. \'a0Here a captive heart busted. 2. \'a0Here a poor prisoner, forsook by\
the world and friends, fretted his sorrowful life. 3. \'a0Here a lonely\
heart broke, and a worn spirit went to its rest, after thirty-seven\
years of solitary captivity. 4. \'a0Here, homeless and friendless, after\
thirty-seven years of bitter captivity, perished a noble stranger,\
natural son of Louis XIV.\
\
Tom\'92s voice trembled whilst he was reading them, and he most broke down.\
When he got done he couldn\'92t no way make up his mind which one for Jim\
to scrabble on to the wall, they was all so good; but at last he allowed\
he would let him scrabble them all on. \'a0Jim said it would take him a\
year to scrabble such a lot of truck on to the logs with a nail, and he\
didn\'92t know how to make letters, besides; but Tom said he would block\
them out for him, and then he wouldn\'92t have nothing to do but just\
follow the lines. \'a0Then pretty soon he says:\
\
\'93Come to think, the logs ain\'92t a-going to do; they don\'92t have log walls\
in a dungeon: \'a0we got to dig the inscriptions into a rock. \'a0We\'92ll fetch\
a rock.\'94\
\
Jim said the rock was worse than the logs; he said it would take him\
such a pison long time to dig them into a rock he wouldn\'92t ever get out.\
\'a0But Tom said he would let me help him do it. \'a0Then he took a look to\
see how me and Jim was getting along with the pens. \'a0It was most pesky\
tedious hard work and slow, and didn\'92t give my hands no show to get\
well of the sores, and we didn\'92t seem to make no headway, hardly; so Tom\
says:\
\
\'93I know how to fix it. \'a0We got to have a rock for the coat of arms and\
mournful inscriptions, and we can kill two birds with that same rock.\
There\'92s a gaudy big grindstone down at the mill, and we\'92ll smouch it,\
and carve the things on it, and file out the pens and the saw on it,\
too.\'94\
\
It warn\'92t no slouch of an idea; and it warn\'92t no slouch of a grindstone\
nuther; but we allowed we\'92d tackle it. \'a0It warn\'92t quite midnight yet,\
so we cleared out for the mill, leaving Jim at work. \'a0We smouched the\
grindstone, and set out to roll her home, but it was a most nation tough\
job. Sometimes, do what we could, we couldn\'92t keep her from falling\
over, and she come mighty near mashing us every time. \'a0Tom said she was\
going to get one of us, sure, before we got through. \'a0We got her half\
way; and then we was plumb played out, and most drownded with sweat. \'a0We\
see it warn\'92t no use; we got to go and fetch Jim. So he raised up his\
bed and slid the chain off of the bed-leg, and wrapt it round and round\
his neck, and we crawled out through our hole and down there, and Jim\
and me laid into that grindstone and walked her along like nothing; and\
Tom superintended. \'a0He could out-superintend any boy I ever see. \'a0He\
knowed how to do everything.\
\
Our hole was pretty big, but it warn\'92t big enough to get the grindstone\
through; but Jim he took the pick and soon made it big enough. \'a0Then Tom\
marked out them things on it with the nail, and set Jim to work on them,\
with the nail for a chisel and an iron bolt from the rubbage in the\
lean-to for a hammer, and told him to work till the rest of his candle\
quit on him, and then he could go to bed, and hide the grindstone under\
his straw tick and sleep on it. \'a0Then we helped him fix his chain back\
on the bed-leg, and was ready for bed ourselves. \'a0But Tom thought of\
something, and says:\
\
\'93You got any spiders in here, Jim?\'94\
\
\'93No, sah, thanks to goodness I hain\'92t, Mars Tom.\'94\
\
\'93All right, we\'92ll get you some.\'94\
\
\'93But bless you, honey, I doan\'92 _want_ none. \'a0I\'92s afeard un um. \'a0I jis\'92\
\'91s soon have rattlesnakes aroun\'92.\'94\
\
Tom thought a minute or two, and says:\
\
\'93It\'92s a good idea. \'a0And I reckon it\'92s been done. \'a0It _must_ a been done;\
it stands to reason. \'a0Yes, it\'92s a prime good idea. \'a0Where could you keep\
it?\'94\
\
\'93Keep what, Mars Tom?\'94\
\
\'93Why, a rattlesnake.\'94\
\
\'93De goodness gracious alive, Mars Tom! \'a0Why, if dey was a rattlesnake to\
come in heah I\'92d take en bust right out thoo dat log wall, I would, wid\
my head.\'94\
\
\'93Why, Jim, you wouldn\'92t be afraid of it after a little. \'a0You could tame\
it.\'94\
\
\'93_Tame_ it!\'94\
\
\'93Yes--easy enough. \'a0Every animal is grateful for kindness and petting,\
and they wouldn\'92t _think_ of hurting a person that pets them. \'a0Any book\
will tell you that. \'a0You try--that\'92s all I ask; just try for two or three\
days. Why, you can get him so, in a little while, that he\'92ll love you;\
and sleep with you; and won\'92t stay away from you a minute; and will let\
you wrap him round your neck and put his head in your mouth.\'94\
\
\'93_Please_, Mars Tom--_doan_\'92 talk so! \'a0I can\'92t _stan_\'92 it! \'a0He\'92d _let_\
me shove his head in my mouf--fer a favor, hain\'92t it? \'a0I lay he\'92d wait a\
pow\'92ful long time \'91fo\'92 I _ast_ him. \'a0En mo\'92 en dat, I doan\'92 _want_ him\
to sleep wid me.\'94\
\
\'93Jim, don\'92t act so foolish. \'a0A prisoner\'92s _got_ to have some kind of a\
dumb pet, and if a rattlesnake hain\'92t ever been tried, why, there\'92s more\
glory to be gained in your being the first to ever try it than any other\
way you could ever think of to save your life.\'94\
\
\'93Why, Mars Tom, I doan\'92 _want_ no sich glory. \'a0Snake take \'91n bite\
Jim\'92s chin off, den _whah_ is de glory? \'a0No, sah, I doan\'92 want no sich\
doin\'92s.\'94\
\
\'93Blame it, can\'92t you _try_? \'a0I only _want_ you to try--you needn\'92t keep\
it up if it don\'92t work.\'94\
\
\'93But de trouble all _done_ ef de snake bite me while I\'92s a tryin\'92 him.\
Mars Tom, I\'92s willin\'92 to tackle mos\'92 anything \'91at ain\'92t onreasonable,\
but ef you en Huck fetches a rattlesnake in heah for me to tame, I\'92s\
gwyne to _leave_, dat\'92s _shore_.\'94\
\
\'93Well, then, let it go, let it go, if you\'92re so bull-headed about it.\
\'a0We can get you some garter-snakes, and you can tie some buttons on\
their tails, and let on they\'92re rattlesnakes, and I reckon that \'91ll have\
to do.\'94\
\
\'93I k\'92n stan\'92 _dem_, Mars Tom, but blame\'92 \'91f I couldn\'92 get along widout\
um, I tell you dat. \'a0I never knowed b\'92fo\'92 \'91t was so much bother and\
trouble to be a prisoner.\'94\
\
\'93Well, it _always_ is when it\'92s done right. \'a0You got any rats around\
here?\'94\
\
\'93No, sah, I hain\'92t seed none.\'94\
\
\'93Well, we\'92ll get you some rats.\'94\
\
\'93Why, Mars Tom, I doan\'92 _want_ no rats. \'a0Dey\'92s de dadblamedest creturs\
to \'91sturb a body, en rustle roun\'92 over \'91im, en bite his feet, when he\'92s\
tryin\'92 to sleep, I ever see. \'a0No, sah, gimme g\'92yarter-snakes, \'91f I\'92s\
got to have \'91m, but doan\'92 gimme no rats; I hain\'92 got no use f\'92r um,\
skasely.\'94\
\
\'93But, Jim, you _got_ to have \'91em--they all do. \'a0So don\'92t make no more\
fuss about it. \'a0Prisoners ain\'92t ever without rats. \'a0There ain\'92t no\
instance of it. \'a0And they train them, and pet them, and learn them\
tricks, and they get to be as sociable as flies. \'a0But you got to play\
music to them. \'a0You got anything to play music on?\'94\
\
\'93I ain\'92 got nuffn but a coase comb en a piece o\'92 paper, en a juice-harp;\
but I reck\'92n dey wouldn\'92 take no stock in a juice-harp.\'94\
\
\'93Yes they would\'a0_they_ don\'92t care what kind of music \'91tis. \'a0A\
jews-harp\'92s plenty good enough for a rat. \'a0All animals like music--in a\
prison they dote on it. \'a0Specially, painful music; and you can\'92t get no\
other kind out of a jews-harp. \'a0It always interests them; they come out\
to see what\'92s the matter with you. \'a0Yes, you\'92re all right; you\'92re fixed\
very well. \'a0You want to set on your bed nights before you go to sleep,\
and early in the mornings, and play your jews-harp; play \'91The Last Link\
is Broken\'92--that\'92s the thing that \'91ll scoop a rat quicker \'91n anything\
else; and when you\'92ve played about two minutes you\'92ll see all the rats,\
and the snakes, and spiders, and things begin to feel worried about you,\
and come. \'a0And they\'92ll just fairly swarm over you, and have a noble good\
time.\'94\
\
\'93Yes, _dey_ will, I reck\'92n, Mars Tom, but what kine er time is _Jim_\
havin\'92? Blest if I kin see de pint. \'a0But I\'92ll do it ef I got to. \'a0I\
reck\'92n I better keep de animals satisfied, en not have no trouble in de\
house.\'94\
\
Tom waited to think it over, and see if there wasn\'92t nothing else; and\
pretty soon he says:\
\
\'93Oh, there\'92s one thing I forgot. \'a0Could you raise a flower here, do you\
reckon?\'94\
\
\'93I doan know but maybe I could, Mars Tom; but it\'92s tolable dark in heah,\
en I ain\'92 got no use f\'92r no flower, nohow, en she\'92d be a pow\'92ful sight\
o\'92 trouble.\'94\
\
\'93Well, you try it, anyway. \'a0Some other prisoners has done it.\'94\
\
\'93One er dem big cat-tail-lookin\'92 mullen-stalks would grow in heah, Mars\
Tom, I reck\'92n, but she wouldn\'92t be wuth half de trouble she\'92d coss.\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t you believe it. \'a0We\'92ll fetch you a little one and you plant it in\
the corner over there, and raise it. \'a0And don\'92t call it mullen, call it\
Pitchiola--that\'92s its right name when it\'92s in a prison. \'a0And you want to\
water it with your tears.\'94\
\
\'93Why, I got plenty spring water, Mars Tom.\'94\
\
\'93You don\'92t _want_ spring water; you want to water it with your tears.\
\'a0It\'92s the way they always do.\'94\
\
\'93Why, Mars Tom, I lay I kin raise one er dem mullen-stalks twyste wid\
spring water whiles another man\'92s a _start\'92n_ one wid tears.\'94\
\
\'93That ain\'92t the idea. \'a0You _got_ to do it with tears.\'94\
\
\'93She\'92ll die on my han\'92s, Mars Tom, she sholy will; kase I doan\'92 skasely\
ever cry.\'94\
\
So Tom was stumped. \'a0But he studied it over, and then said Jim would\
have to worry along the best he could with an onion. \'a0He promised\
he would go to the nigger cabins and drop one, private, in Jim\'92s\
coffee-pot, in the morning. Jim said he would \'93jis\'92 \'91s soon have\
tobacker in his coffee;\'94 and found so much fault with it, and with the\
work and bother of raising the mullen, and jews-harping the rats, and\
petting and flattering up the snakes and spiders and things, on top of\
all the other work he had to do on pens, and inscriptions, and journals,\
and things, which made it more trouble and worry and responsibility to\
be a prisoner than anything he ever undertook, that Tom most lost all\
patience with him; and said he was just loadened down with more gaudier\
chances than a prisoner ever had in the world to make a name for\
himself, and yet he didn\'92t know enough to appreciate them, and they was\
just about wasted on him. \'a0So Jim he was sorry, and said he wouldn\'92t\
behave so no more, and then me and Tom shoved for bed.\
\
\
\
\
CHAPTER XXXIX.\
\
IN the morning we went up to the village and bought a wire rat-trap and\
fetched it down, and unstopped the best rat-hole, and in about an hour\
we had fifteen of the bulliest kind of ones; and then we took it and put\
it in a safe place under Aunt Sally\'92s bed. \'a0But while we was gone for\
spiders little Thomas Franklin Benjamin Jefferson Elexander Phelps found\
it there, and opened the door of it to see if the rats would come out,\
and they did; and Aunt Sally she come in, and when we got back she was\
a-standing on top of the bed raising Cain, and the rats was doing what\
they could to keep off the dull times for her. \'a0So she took and dusted\
us both with the hickry, and we was as much as two hours catching\
another fifteen or sixteen, drat that meddlesome cub, and they warn\'92t\
the likeliest, nuther, because the first haul was the pick of the flock.\
\'a0I never see a likelier lot of rats than what that first haul was.\
\
We got a splendid stock of sorted spiders, and bugs, and frogs, and\
caterpillars, and one thing or another; and we like to got a hornet\'92s\
nest, but we didn\'92t. \'a0The family was at home. \'a0We didn\'92t give it right\
up, but stayed with them as long as we could; because we allowed we\'92d\
tire them out or they\'92d got to tire us out, and they done it. \'a0Then we\
got allycumpain and rubbed on the places, and was pretty near all right\
again, but couldn\'92t set down convenient. \'a0And so we went for the snakes,\
and grabbed a couple of dozen garters and house-snakes, and put them in\
a bag, and put it in our room, and by that time it was supper-time, and\
a rattling good honest day\'92s work: \'a0and hungry?--oh, no, I reckon not!\
\'a0And there warn\'92t a blessed snake up there when we went back--we didn\'92t\
half tie the sack, and they worked out somehow, and left. \'a0But it didn\'92t\
matter much, because they was still on the premises somewheres. \'a0So\
we judged we could get some of them again. \'a0No, there warn\'92t no real\
scarcity of snakes about the house for a considerable spell. \'a0You\'92d see\
them dripping from the rafters and places every now and then; and they\
generly landed in your plate, or down the back of your neck, and most\
of the time where you didn\'92t want them. \'a0Well, they was handsome and\
striped, and there warn\'92t no harm in a million of them; but that never\
made no difference to Aunt Sally; she despised snakes, be the breed what\
they might, and she couldn\'92t stand them no way you could fix it; and\
every time one of them flopped down on her, it didn\'92t make no difference\
what she was doing, she would just lay that work down and light out. \'a0I\
never see such a woman. \'a0And you could hear her whoop to Jericho. \'a0You\
couldn\'92t get her to take a-holt of one of them with the tongs. \'a0And if\
she turned over and found one in bed she would scramble out and lift a\
howl that you would think the house was afire. \'a0She disturbed the old\
man so that he said he could most wish there hadn\'92t ever been no snakes\
created. \'a0Why, after every last snake had been gone clear out of the\
house for as much as a week Aunt Sally warn\'92t over it yet; she warn\'92t\
near over it; when she was setting thinking about something you could\
touch her on the back of her neck with a feather and she would jump\
right out of her stockings. \'a0It was very curious. \'a0But Tom said all\
women was just so. \'a0He said they was made that way for some reason or\
other.\
\
We got a licking every time one of our snakes come in her way, and she\
allowed these lickings warn\'92t nothing to what she would do if we ever\
loaded up the place again with them. \'a0I didn\'92t mind the lickings,\
because they didn\'92t amount to nothing; but I minded the trouble we\
had to lay in another lot. \'a0But we got them laid in, and all the other\
things; and you never see a cabin as blithesome as Jim\'92s was when they\'92d\
all swarm out for music and go for him. \'a0Jim didn\'92t like the spiders,\
and the spiders didn\'92t like Jim; and so they\'92d lay for him, and make it\
mighty warm for him. \'a0And he said that between the rats and the snakes\
and the grindstone there warn\'92t no room in bed for him, skasely; and\
when there was, a body couldn\'92t sleep, it was so lively, and it was\
always lively, he said, because _they_ never all slept at one time, but\
took turn about, so when the snakes was asleep the rats was on deck, and\
when the rats turned in the snakes come on watch, so he always had one\
gang under him, in his way, and t\'92other gang having a circus over him,\
and if he got up to hunt a new place the spiders would take a chance at\
him as he crossed over. He said if he ever got out this time he wouldn\'92t\
ever be a prisoner again, not for a salary.\
\
Well, by the end of three weeks everything was in pretty good shape.\
\'a0The shirt was sent in early, in a pie, and every time a rat bit Jim he\
would get up and write a little in his journal whilst the ink was fresh;\
the pens was made, the inscriptions and so on was all carved on the\
grindstone; the bed-leg was sawed in two, and we had et up the sawdust,\
and it give us a most amazing stomach-ache. \'a0We reckoned we was all\
going to die, but didn\'92t. \'a0It was the most undigestible sawdust I ever\
see; and Tom said the same.\
\
But as I was saying, we\'92d got all the work done now, at last; and we was\
all pretty much fagged out, too, but mainly Jim. \'a0The old man had wrote\
a couple of times to the plantation below Orleans to come and get their\
runaway nigger, but hadn\'92t got no answer, because there warn\'92t no such\
plantation; so he allowed he would advertise Jim in the St. Louis and\
New Orleans papers; and when he mentioned the St. Louis ones it give me\
the cold shivers, and I see we hadn\'92t no time to lose. So Tom said, now\
for the nonnamous letters.\
\
\'93What\'92s them?\'94 \'a0I says.\
\
\'93Warnings to the people that something is up. \'a0Sometimes it\'92s done one\
way, sometimes another. \'a0But there\'92s always somebody spying around that\
gives notice to the governor of the castle. \'a0When Louis XVI. was going\
to light out of the Tooleries, a servant-girl done it. \'a0It\'92s a very good\
way, and so is the nonnamous letters. \'a0We\'92ll use them both. \'a0And it\'92s\
usual for the prisoner\'92s mother to change clothes with him, and she\
stays in, and he slides out in her clothes. \'a0We\'92ll do that, too.\'94\
\
\'93But looky here, Tom, what do we want to _warn_ anybody for that\
something\'92s up? \'a0Let them find it out for themselves--it\'92s their\
lookout.\'94\
\
\'93Yes, I know; but you can\'92t depend on them. \'a0It\'92s the way they\'92ve acted\
from the very start--left us to do _everything_. \'a0They\'92re so confiding\
and mullet-headed they don\'92t take notice of nothing at all. \'a0So if we\
don\'92t _give_ them notice there won\'92t be nobody nor nothing to interfere\
with us, and so after all our hard work and trouble this escape \'91ll go\
off perfectly flat; won\'92t amount to nothing--won\'92t be nothing _to_ it.\'94\
\
\'93Well, as for me, Tom, that\'92s the way I\'92d like.\'94\
\
\'93Shucks!\'94 he says, and looked disgusted. \'a0So I says:\
\
\'93But I ain\'92t going to make no complaint. \'a0Any way that suits you suits\
me. What you going to do about the servant-girl?\'94\
\
\'93You\'92ll be her. \'a0You slide in, in the middle of the night, and hook that\
yaller girl\'92s frock.\'94\
\
\'93Why, Tom, that \'91ll make trouble next morning; because, of course, she\
prob\'92bly hain\'92t got any but that one.\'94\
\
\'93I know; but you don\'92t want it but fifteen minutes, to carry the\
nonnamous letter and shove it under the front door.\'94\
\
\'93All right, then, I\'92ll do it; but I could carry it just as handy in my\
own togs.\'94\
\
\'93You wouldn\'92t look like a servant-girl _then_, would you?\'94\
\
\'93No, but there won\'92t be nobody to see what I look like, _anyway_.\'94\
\
\'93That ain\'92t got nothing to do with it. \'a0The thing for us to do is just\
to do our _duty_, and not worry about whether anybody _sees_ us do it or\
not. Hain\'92t you got no principle at all?\'94\
\
\'93All right, I ain\'92t saying nothing; I\'92m the servant-girl. \'a0Who\'92s Jim\'92s\
mother?\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m his mother. \'a0I\'92ll hook a gown from Aunt Sally.\'94\
\
\'93Well, then, you\'92ll have to stay in the cabin when me and Jim leaves.\'94\
\
\'93Not much. \'a0I\'92ll stuff Jim\'92s clothes full of straw and lay it on his bed\
to represent his mother in disguise, and Jim \'91ll take the nigger woman\'92s\
gown off of me and wear it, and we\'92ll all evade together. \'a0When a\
prisoner of style escapes it\'92s called an evasion. \'a0It\'92s always called\
so when a king escapes, f\'92rinstance. \'a0And the same with a king\'92s son;\
it don\'92t make no difference whether he\'92s a natural one or an unnatural\
one.\'94\
\
So Tom he wrote the nonnamous letter, and I smouched the yaller wench\'92s\
frock that night, and put it on, and shoved it under the front door, the\
way Tom told me to. \'a0It said:\
\
Beware. \'a0Trouble is brewing. \'a0Keep a sharp lookout. _Unknown_ _Friend_.\
\
Next night we stuck a picture, which Tom drawed in blood, of a skull and\
crossbones on the front door; and next night another one of a coffin on\
the back door. \'a0I never see a family in such a sweat. \'a0They couldn\'92t a\
been worse scared if the place had a been full of ghosts laying for them\
behind everything and under the beds and shivering through the air. \'a0If\
a door banged, Aunt Sally she jumped and said \'93ouch!\'94 if anything fell,\
she jumped and said \'93ouch!\'94 if you happened to touch her, when she\
warn\'92t noticing, she done the same; she couldn\'92t face noway and be\
satisfied, because she allowed there was something behind her every\
time--so she was always a-whirling around sudden, and saying \'93ouch,\'94 and\
before she\'92d got two-thirds around she\'92d whirl back again, and say it\
again; and she was afraid to go to bed, but she dasn\'92t set up. \'a0So the\
thing was working very well, Tom said; he said he never see a thing work\
more satisfactory. He said it showed it was done right.\
\
So he said, now for the grand bulge! \'a0So the very next morning at the\
streak of dawn we got another letter ready, and was wondering what we\
better do with it, because we heard them say at supper they was going\
to have a nigger on watch at both doors all night. \'a0Tom he went down the\
lightning-rod to spy around; and the nigger at the back door was asleep,\
and he stuck it in the back of his neck and come back. \'a0This letter\
said:\
\
Don\'92t betray me, I wish to be your friend. \'a0There is a desprate gang of\
cutthroats from over in the Indian Territory going to steal your runaway\
nigger to-night, and they have been trying to scare you so as you will\
stay in the house and not bother them. \'a0I am one of the gang, but have\
got religgion and wish to quit it and lead an honest life again, and\
will betray the helish design. They will sneak down from northards,\
along the fence, at midnight exact, with a false key, and go in the\
nigger\'92s cabin to get him. I am to be off a piece and blow a tin horn\
if I see any danger; but stead of that I will _baa_ like a sheep soon as\
they get in and not blow at all; then whilst they are getting his\
chains loose, you slip there and lock them in, and can kill them at your\
leasure. \'a0Don\'92t do anything but just the way I am telling you, if you do\
they will suspicion something and raise whoop-jamboreehoo. I do not wish\
any reward but to know I have done the right thing. _Unknown Friend._\
\
\
\
\
CHAPTER XL.\
\
WE was feeling pretty good after breakfast, and took my canoe and went\
over the river a-fishing, with a lunch, and had a good time, and took a\
look at the raft and found her all right, and got home late to supper,\
and found them in such a sweat and worry they didn\'92t know which end they\
was standing on, and made us go right off to bed the minute we was done\
supper, and wouldn\'92t tell us what the trouble was, and never let on a\
word about the new letter, but didn\'92t need to, because we knowed as much\
about it as anybody did, and as soon as we was half up stairs and her\
back was turned we slid for the cellar cupboard and loaded up a good\
lunch and took it up to our room and went to bed, and got up about\
half-past eleven, and Tom put on Aunt Sally\'92s dress that he stole and\
was going to start with the lunch, but says:\
\
\'93Where\'92s the butter?\'94\
\
\'93I laid out a hunk of it,\'94 I says, \'93on a piece of a corn-pone.\'94\
\
\'93Well, you _left_ it laid out, then--it ain\'92t here.\'94\
\
\'93We can get along without it,\'94 I says.\
\
\'93We can get along _with_ it, too,\'94 he says; \'93just you slide down cellar\
and fetch it. \'a0And then mosey right down the lightning-rod and come\
along. I\'92ll go and stuff the straw into Jim\'92s clothes to represent his\
mother in disguise, and be ready to _baa_ like a sheep and shove soon as\
you get there.\'94\
\
So out he went, and down cellar went I. The hunk of butter, big as\
a person\'92s fist, was where I had left it, so I took up the slab of\
corn-pone with it on, and blowed out my light, and started up stairs\
very stealthy, and got up to the main floor all right, but here comes\
Aunt Sally with a candle, and I clapped the truck in my hat, and clapped\
my hat on my head, and the next second she see me; and she says:\
\
\'93You been down cellar?\'94\
\
\'93Yes\'92m.\'94\
\
\'93What you been doing down there?\'94\
\
\'93Noth\'92n.\'94\
\
\'93_Noth\'92n!_\'94\
\
\'93No\'92m.\'94\
\
\'93Well, then, what possessed you to go down there this time of night?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know \'91m.\'94\
\
\'93You don\'92t _know_? \'a0Don\'92t answer me that way. Tom, I want to know what\
you been _doing_ down there.\'94\
\
\'93I hain\'92t been doing a single thing, Aunt Sally, I hope to gracious if I\
have.\'94\
\
I reckoned she\'92d let me go now, and as a generl thing she would; but I\
s\'92pose there was so many strange things going on she was just in a sweat\
about every little thing that warn\'92t yard-stick straight; so she says,\
very decided:\
\
\'93You just march into that setting-room and stay there till I come. \'a0You\
been up to something you no business to, and I lay I\'92ll find out what it\
is before I\'92M done with you.\'94\
\
So she went away as I opened the door and walked into the setting-room.\
My, but there was a crowd there! \'a0Fifteen farmers, and every one of them\
had a gun. \'a0I was most powerful sick, and slunk to a chair and set down.\
They was setting around, some of them talking a little, in a low voice,\
and all of them fidgety and uneasy, but trying to look like they warn\'92t;\
but I knowed they was, because they was always taking off their hats,\
and putting them on, and scratching their heads, and changing their\
seats, and fumbling with their buttons. \'a0I warn\'92t easy myself, but I\
didn\'92t take my hat off, all the same.\
\
I did wish Aunt Sally would come, and get done with me, and lick me, if\
she wanted to, and let me get away and tell Tom how we\'92d overdone this\
thing, and what a thundering hornet\'92s-nest we\'92d got ourselves into, so\
we could stop fooling around straight off, and clear out with Jim before\
these rips got out of patience and come for us.\
\
At last she come and begun to ask me questions, but I _couldn\'92t_ answer\
them straight, I didn\'92t know which end of me was up; because these men\
was in such a fidget now that some was wanting to start right NOW and\
lay for them desperadoes, and saying it warn\'92t but a few minutes to\
midnight; and others was trying to get them to hold on and wait for the\
sheep-signal; and here was Aunty pegging away at the questions, and\
me a-shaking all over and ready to sink down in my tracks I was\
that scared; and the place getting hotter and hotter, and the butter\
beginning to melt and run down my neck and behind my ears; and pretty\
soon, when one of them says, \'93I\'92M for going and getting in the cabin\
_first_ and right _now_, and catching them when they come,\'94 I most\
dropped; and a streak of butter come a-trickling down my forehead, and\
Aunt Sally she see it, and turns white as a sheet, and says:\
\
\'93For the land\'92s sake, what _is_ the matter with the child? \'a0He\'92s got the\
brain-f\
}